## Why Should You Care About Semantic HTML?
*Semantics* are the meaning of words, or phrases, in a language. In HTML, which is a language, elements have their own semantic meaning too. In fact, you can think of your HTML document like you would a text document. And much like a text document, you might have headings, images, bold text and other formatting.

The semantic meaning of an element refers to what special information that element conveys. The semantic meaning of a `p` element, for example, is a paragraph of text. Most elements have a semantic meaning: the `div` one is one of the very few that does not.

First and foremost, using proper semantic HTML will ensure the best experience for users with assistive technology like screen readers. But also, semantic HTML can improve your search ratings (SEO).
## Why Is It Important to Have Good Structural Hierarchy?
The most important aspect of creating a structural hierarchy is the proper use of heading elements. 

Much like a text document, you do not want to use heading levels in the incorrect order. Your `h1` element is your top-level heading. You will rarely have more than one of these on a page. Your `h2` element is your subheading. It should always come after your `h1` and might come after some introductory text. Following the pattern, your `h3` element should always come after an `h2` element. That is, you should never skip directly from `h1` to `h3`.

It may be tempting to use a specific heading element because of its styling, but instead you should choose the appropriate element for your document structure and use CSS to achieve the styling you'd like.

Using the right hierarchy is important for accessibility, for SEO and because, depending on how incorrect your structure is, your HTML may not even be technically valid. When this happens, the web browser has to effectively guess what you meant to do.
## What Is the Difference Between Presentational and Semantic HTML?
*Presentational HTML* focuses on the appearance and style of the content, which is changed using some ad-hoc elements like `big`, `center` and `font`. These elements are now deprecated, so it's better to use CSS instead.

Semantic HTML is now the recommended practice. It describes the content of the elements, so it's much easier to read, understand and maintain.

Examples of semantic HTML elements include the `header`, the `nav`, the `section` and the `figure`. The semantic elements clearly show their purpose within the HTML structure. There are many different semantic HTML elements. You will definitely find one that fits the needs of your project.
## When Should You Use the Emphasis Element Over the Idiomatic Text Element?
The *idiomatic text element* `i` was originally used for presentational purposes to display the text in italics. But now it is frequently used for highlighting alternative voice or mood, idiomatic terms from another language, technical terms and thoughts.

```html
<p>There is a certain <i lang="fr">je ne sais quoi</i> in the air.</p>
```

The `lang` attribute inside the open `<i>` tag is used to specify the language of the content.

If you need to emphasize the important of the text, you can use a similar semantic element called the *emphasis element* `em`. You should use this elements for parts of the text that require a special emphasis compared to surrounding text. It's usually limited to only a few words, because it can alter the meaning of the sentence.

```html
<p>
  Never give up on <em>your</em> dreams.
</p>
```
## When Should You Use the Strong Element Over the Bring Attention Element?
The *bring attention to* element `b` is commonly used to highlight keywords in summaries, or product names in reviews. Usually, browsers display this text in boldface. This visual emphasis will draw readers attention to the product names.

If you need to emphasize the importance of the text, you should use the `strong` element instead of the `b` element. `strong` is a semantic HTML element that emphasizes text that is crucial or urgent.

Visually both are very similar, because they are both rendered as bold by default. But their meanings are quite different. While the "bring attention to" element only draws attention to the text, without indicating the higher level of importance, the `strong` element does more than that. It conveys a sense of importance, or urgency. This is their main difference.
## What Are Description Lists, and When Should You Use Them?
*Description lists* are perfect for presenting terms and definitions in an organized and easy-to-read format, like in a glossary or a real dictionary, where you can find words with their corresponding definitions.

You will need three HTML elements to define a description list. First, the description list element, `dl`, which is the container for the entire list. Then, one description term element, `dt`, for each term. And finally, after each term you will find a description details element, `dd`, for the description or details associated with that term. In the browser you would see each term followed by its corresponding description. 
## How Do Block and Inline Quotes Work in HTML?
In HTML, quoted elements are used to distinguish quoted text from the surrounding content. This gives the quoted text a format that is easy to identify. You should use the block quotation element `blockquote` for representing a section quoted from another source. It's mainly used for extended quotations. If the source of the quote has an address, you can cite it with the `cite` attribute. The value of this attribute should be a valid URL.

```html
<blockquote cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
  "Can you imagine what it would be like to be a successful developer? To have built software systems that people rely upon?"
</blockquote>
```

So far I've been using the `cite` attribute to attribute the source of the quotation, but the attribute doesn't really show the source to the user. It only works behind the scenes. If you want to attribute the source visually, you can add a citation element, `cite`, outside of the block quotation element. This is different from the `cite` attribute. The citation element is an HTML element that you can use to mark up the title of a referenced creative work like a book article, song, film, website, or research paper.

You should use block quotes like these for long quotations from other sources. But sometimes you will only need to quote a few words within a larger paragraph. That's exactly what the inline quotation element `q` is for. It's for short inline quotations from other sources. Most modern browsers will add quotation marks around the inline quote automatically when you use this element.

```html
<p>
  As Quincy Larson said,
  <q cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
    Momentum is everything.
  </q>
</p>
```
## How Do You Display Abbreviations in HTML?
There are two commons forms of abbreviation: acronyms and initialism. An *acronym* is a word formed from the initial letters of a phrase, with each letter representing the first letter of a word in that phrase. An *initialism* is formed from the initials letters of a phrase, with each letter representing the first letter of a word in that phrase. The distinction is <u>acronyms are pronounced as words</u> and <u>initialisms are pronounced as individual letters</u>.

If you need to display abbreviations such as acronyms or initialisms in HTML, the abbreviation element `abbr` is exactly what you're looking for.

```html
<p><abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> is the foundation of the web.</p>
```

The `title` attribute is optional, but if you decide to include it, it must be a human readable description of the abbreviation, acronym, or initialism. Usually, the style of the abbreviation element will change when you add this attribute. The specific style will depend on the browser. Some browsers may display a dotted underline, while others may convert the contents to small caps. When the user hovers over the abbreviation, the full form is displayed as a tooltip.
## How Do You Display Addresses in HTML?
The contact address element is used to represent contact information for a section on a web page. The `address` element is versatile and can be used for business pages, author pages, personal sites and more.

When it comes to building out your website's contact sections, you should use the semantic `address` element over a generic element like a `div`.

```html
<address>
  <h2>Company Name</h2>
  <p>
    1234 Elm Street<br />
    Springfield, IL 62701<br />
    United States
  </p>
  <p>Phone: <a href="tel:+15555555555">+1 (555) 555-5555</a></p>
  <p>Email: <a href="mailto:contact@company.com">contact@company.com</a></p>
</address>
```
For the phone number, we have an anchor element with the `href` value set for telephone numbers. The `tel:+` value inside the `href` attribute creates a clickable link to initiate a phone call on certain devices that support that. For the email address, another anchor element is used with the `href` value set to a `mailto` link. `mailto` links are used in HTML documents to allow users to open a new email within their preferred email client.
## How Do You Display Times and Dates in HTML?
The `time` element is used to represent a specific moment in time.

```html
<p>The reservations are for <time datetime="20:00">20:00 </time></p>
```

The `datetime` attribute is used to translate dates and times into a machine-readable format. This is important, because it helps with search engine results and helps the browser process date and time information more effectively. The value for the `datetime` attribute must be either a valid year, valid month, valid time, local date, global date, or valid duration string.

```html
<p>
  The graduation will be on <time datetime="2024-06-15T15:00">June 15</time>
</p>
```
The value for the `datetime` attribute is in the ISO 8601 format. ISO 8601 is an international standard to represent dates and times.
## How Do You Display Mathematical Equations and Chemical Formulas in HTML?
The *superscript* element is used to display a piece of text as a superscript. A superscript is a symbol or letter printed above the normal line of text.

```html
<p>2<sup>2</sup> (2 squared) is 4.</p>
```
Common use cases for the superscript element would include exponents, superior lettering, and ordinal numbers.

It is important to note that the superscript element should only be used for typographical reasons. If you want to style a piece of text with a raised baseline, then you should use CSS instead of the superscript element.
## How Do You Represent Computer Code in HTML?
The inline code element is used to represent short snippets of code inside text. Common use cases for the code element would be for technical articles and documentation pages.

```html
<p>
  To set the text color to blue in CSS, use the following code:
  <code>color: blue;</code>
</p>
```

The `code` element is meant to represent a single line of code. If you want to represent multiple lines of code, you will need to place a `code` element inside a preformatted text element. The preformatted text element is used to represent preformatted text.

```html
<pre>
  <code>
    body {
      color: red;
    }
  </code>
</pre>
```
## What Are the U, S, and Ruby Elements Used For, and How Do They Work?
The unarticulated annotation element, or `u` element for short, is used to represent inline text that has non-textual annotation applied. In HTML4, the `u` element was used for styling purposes. But in HTML5, the `u` element should only be used to indicate that text has non-textual annotation applied.

The strikethrough element, or `s` element for short, should be used to represent when text is no longer accurate or relevant. The `s` element should never be used just to show changes to a document. More appropriate elements in that case would be the deleted text element and the inserted text element.

The `ruby` element represents small text shown above or below the main text. It is typically used to show the pronunciation of East Asian characters. The `rp` element, or ruby fallback parenthesis element, is used as a fallback for browsers lacking support for displaying ruby annotations. The `rt` element, or ruby text element, is used to indicate text for the ruby annotation. This text is usually used for pronunciation, or translation details in East Asian typography.