## How Do Forms, Labels and Inputs Work in HTML?
The `form` element in HTML is used to gather user information, such as names and email addresses.

The `action` attribute specifies where the form data will be sent upon submission. To collect specific informations, like name and email addresses, you would use the `input` element.

```html
<form action="">
  <input type="text" />
</form>
```

`input` elements are void elements and do not have closing tags. The `type` attribute defines the data type expected from the user. In this case, the data would be plaintext. To add a label for the input, you would use a `label` element.

```html
<form action="">
  <label>
    Full Name:
    <input type="text" />
  </label>
</form>
```

By nesting an `input` inside a `label` element, you create an implicit association between the `label` and the `input` field. To explicitly associate a `label` with an `input`, you can use the `for` attribute. Here is an example of using the `for` attribute for an email address label.

```html
<form action="">
  <label for="email"> Email Address: </label>
  <input type="email" id="email" />
</form>
```

If you want to show additional hints to the users about the expected input, you can use the `placeholder` attribute. For the placeholder text, you want to provide helpful short text to show the format and type of data you expect from your users.
## What Are the Different Types of Buttons, and When Should You Use Them?
The `button` element is used to perform a particular action when it is activated. Examples of using the `button` element include submitting a form, showing a modal or toggling a side menu open and closed.

The `button` element has a `type` attribute which controls the behavior of the button when it is activated. The first possible value for the attribute would be the `button` type.

```html
<button type="button">Show Alert</button>
```

By default, the button will not do anything when activated. However, you can add some JavaScript code to make the button interactive, such as showing an alert.

Another possibile value for the `type` attribute is the `submit` value.

```html
<form action="">
  <label for="email">Email address:</label>
  <input type="email" id="email" name="email" />
  <button type="submit">Submit form</button>
</form>
```

Inside this `form` element, there is a `label` and `input` element for the user's email address. When the user clicks on the submit button, their data will be sent to the server and will be processed.

The third value for the `type` attribute is the `reset` value. When the user clicks on the reset button, then it will clear out all of their input data. It is important to note that reset buttons are usually not the best idea because they could lead to users accidentally resetting their data. Also, multiple buttons in your form could clutter up the user interface.
## What is Client-Side Form Validation in HTML Forms, and What Are Some Examples?
When a user fills out a form on your website, it is important that they fill out all the necessary information in the correct format. HTML form controls, like inputs, have a lot of built-in validation that you can use to check for invalid data.

The term *client-side* refers to everything that happens on the user's computer or device, like the part of the website or app you interact with directly. This includes the layout, design, and any interactive features. The term *server-side* refers to everything that happens on the server, the computer, or system, that hosts the website or app. This includes processing data, running applications, and handling requests that come from the user's device.

While client-side validation is important, you also need server-side validation for added security. Malicious users can bypass client-side checks, so robust server-side measures are essential. You'll learn more about this in a later module. For now, let's take a look at some examples of client-side form validation.

One common example of built-in form validation is to use the `required` attribute in inputs. The `required` attribute specifies that the user needs to fill out that portion of the form before it gets submitted.
## What Are the Different Form States, and Why Are They Important?
In HTML, form controls, like inputs, can be in different stages or conditions like a `focused` state, `readonly` state or `disabled` state.

When the user clicks on a form control or selects it with the keyboard's tab key, then that means it is in the `focused` state. When an input is in the `focused` state, most browsers will show a blue highlighted border around the input. But you can choose to add additional styles in CSS.

Another form state is the `disabled` state. This state shows users that an input cannot be focused or activated.

Another type of form state is the `readonly` state. This is when a form control, like an input, is not editable by the user. Here is an example of setting an email input to read-only. The `value` attribute is used to set the value shown inside the input field. A key difference between the `disabled` state and `readonly` state is that `readonly` can be focused while the `disabled` state cannot.
## What Is an HTML Validator, and How Can It Help You Debug Your Code?
HTML is a very forgiving language – elements still render even when you make mistakes, like forgetting to include a closing tag.

An **HTML validator** is a tool that checks the validity of your HTML code against the standard HTML specifications. It helps you identify errors and warnings in your HTML code, ensuring your web pages are correctly structured and compliant with web standards. Using an HTML validator benefits not only you and your future code reviews, but also anybody else going through your code, such as your teammates and open-source contributors.

There are several HTML validators out there you can use. The most widely accepted one is the [`w3.org`](https://w3.org/) markup validation service. Another HTML validator that you can use is [`jsonformatter.org`](https://jsonformatter.org/).
## How to Use the DOM Inspector and DevTools to Debug and Build Your Projects
When you are building out your projects, you will frequently run into issues where your programs are not working as expected. Programmers often refer to issues as bugs. The process of finding and fixing these bugs is known as debugging.

To debug your code, you will need to use some tools provided by your browser. Two important tools to use would be the DOM inspector and developer tools. 

The **DOM inspector** allows you to inspect the HTML structure of the page you are on. The DOM stands for *Document Object Model*. It is a tree-like structure that represents the elements on a page. You will learn more about the DOM in later modules.