## What Is Accessibility?
Accessibility involves creating products and services that everyone can use. In the context of web development, it's making websites that everyone can understand and interact with, including people with visual, auditory, motor, and cognitive disabilities.

Some examples of disabilities that can impact users' online experience include:
- Blindness.
- Low vision.
- Color blindness.
- Deafness.
- Difficulty using keyboards, mice, or touchscreens.
- Attention disorders
- Memory issues.
- Difficulty speaking or understanding spoken language.
- Sensitivity to flashing lights.

To help you create accessible websites, the *World Wide Web Consortium*, known as **W3C**, developed a set of international standards that you can follow to make your websites more accessible and easier to use for people with disabilities. These standards are known as the *Web Content Accessibility Guidelines* (**WCAG**).

These guidelines are designed with four core principles in mind, known as **POUR**:
- `P` stands for Perceivable. Users must be able to perceive the information that you are presenting. For example, you can provide alternative text for images, so users who access your website with a screen reader can understand them.
- `O` stands for Operable. Users must be able to interact with the user interface. For example, you can make sure that all functionality is accessible through the keyboard too, not just the mouse.
- `U` stands for Understandable. Users must be able to understand the information. For example, you can avoid complex sentences and use simple language as much as possible.
- `R` stands for Robust. A wide range of browsers and other tools, including assistive technologies, must be able to interpret the content.

If your content doesn't follow any one of these core principles, not everyone will be able to use your website. To check if you are following these guidelines correctly, you can access the Quick Reference of the World Wide Web Consortium. There, you will find a comprehensive list of criteria and techniques.
## What Are Screen Readers, and Who Uses Them?
Screen readers are assistive technology programs that help blind and visually impaired people use computers and mobile devices. Screen readers are not just tools for the blind and visually impaired to access computers and mobile devices.

There's a common misconception that screen readers are text-to-speech devices. However, text-to-speech is just one of the features of a screen reader. Some screen readers even render the text to braille output instead of speech. Apart from text-to-speech and braille output, other notable features of screen readers are navigation aids and web browsing assistance.

Screen reader programs are also not only made for the blind and visually impaired. Dyslexic individuals and people with cognitive disabilities also use screen readers. All the popular operating systems out there have screen readers built into them.

One major challenge for screen reader users is that many software developers don't design their products with screen-reader friendliness and accessibility in mind. Even though accessibility is a broad topic, every developer needs to learn how to make their web software accessible for the blind and visually impaired, as well as other groups of people with disabilities.
## What Are Large Text or Braille Keyboards, and Who Uses Them?
Large text and braille keyboards are designed for users with visual disabilities. In Large Text Keyboards, also called Large Print Keyboards, the letters, numbers, and symbols are larger compared to standard keyboards. This design is helpful for people who may find smaller text in the keys difficult to see. Most of them also have enhanced contrast and brightness.

A large print keyboard made by the brand MaxiAids has yellow keys with black, big, and bold letters, numbers, and symbols on them. This is helpful for people with low vision. Another keyboard is the black large print keyboard with white print on the keys. This keyboard is also backlit, so users can adjust its brightness to different lighting conditions.

While large print keyboards provide visual cues for users with low vision, braille keyboards provide a completely tactile experience for people with more severe vision disabilities, including people who are blind. Braille is a tactile reading and writing system. It consists of raised dots arranged in specific patterns to represent letters, numbers, and punctuation. Braille keyboards use this system to help users find the right keys on the keyboard by feeling these patterns with their fingers. The keys have raised dots in patterns that represent letters, numbers and symbols.
## What Are Alternative Pointing Devices Such as Trackballs, Joysticks, and Touchpads Used For?
Alternative pointing devices are input devices that make good alternatives to the traditional mouse. They are essential for improving computer accessibility for those with disabilities, forelimb impairments, and limited mobility. Common examples of alternative pointing devices are trackballs, joysticks, and touchpads.

A trackball is a stationary pointing device that consists of a large, movable ball within a socket. It also includes additional buttons for clicking and performing other functions.

A joystick is a pointing device primarily designed for games and certain industrial applications like machinery control. It consists of a lever that pivots up, down, left, and right, and often includes additional buttons for various actions.

A touchpad is a flat, touch-sensitive device built into laptops and some keyboards. It allows users to control the cursor on the screen by sliding their fingers across its surface.
## What Are Screen Magnifiers Used For?
Screen magnifiers are tools that help people with low vision and other visual impairments better access digital content and the web.

Screen magnifiers work by enlarging texts, graphics, and other elements on a computer or mobile device screen. Many screen magnifiers allow users to enlarge the display by more than 200%. Users can then navigate the page using their pointing device or keyboard. Additionally, most magnifiers offer customizable zoom percentages and other features in their settings. Screen magnifiers primarily help people with low vision read text, as small fonts in documents or applications can be challenging for them. By enlarging the text, they can read emails, articles, and other content without straining their eyes. Screen magnifiers also assist with web browsing. They help users locate and click on buttons, links, and other interactive elements that might be difficult to see. This improved visibility ensures that users can browse websites, fill out forms, and engage in online activities without difficulty.

Apart from the ones built into operating systems, some useful third party screen magnifiers are:
- ZoomText for Windows.
- ClaroView for both macOS and Windows.
- iZoom for Windows.
- Zoomify - Screen Magnifier for macOS.
- LunarPluse for Windows.
- Loupe for macOS.
## What Is Voice Recognition Software Used For?
Voice recognition software helps people with disabilities interact with computers and other digital devices. 

Let's discuss what voice recognition software is and the role it plays in digital inclusion. In the context of accessibility, voice recognition tools let people with disabilities use their voice to pass commands to perform various tasks instead of using traditional input devices like keyboards and mice. This includes writing emails and other documents, surfing the net, and controlling smart home devices.

Here are the specific people who may find voice recognition software significantly helpful:
- People with visual impairments, including those with low-vision or blindness.
- Individuals with mobility impairments, such as limited use of hands and arms or conditions like arthritis and carpal tunnel syndrome.
- Those recovering from hand or arm injuries.
- Individuals with cognitive disorders, like memory issues or attention deficit disorders.
- Elderly individuals who might find it easier to use voice commands.
## What Are Some Common Accessibility Auditing Tools to Use?
Accessibility is a crucial yet often overlooked aspect of digital content. When making your digital content accessible, it's important to ensure it meets accessibility standards.

An accessibility auditing tool is an application that helps you improve the accessibility of your digital content by reporting accessibility issues that can be easily found through automated testing. This content includes websites, web applications, and mobile apps.

It is important to note that while automated accessibility tools have a role in improving accessibility, they typically will only find about a third of all possible accessibility issues. Therefore, it is important not to rely on them entirely to evaluate the accessibility of your content. Manual testing, preferably by people with disabilities, will always be required to ensure that your content is as accessible as possible.

*Google Lighthouse* is a popular web metric checker you can use directly within Chrome DevTools or online. This means you can check not only live websites but also locally-developed ones.

*WAVE* is another reliable accessibility checker you can use as a Chrome extension or on the web. All you need to do is enter the URL of your website and a comprehensive accessibility report will be generated for you. This report includes accessibility features implemented, ARIA, and contrasts.

The *IBM Equal Accessibility Checker* is another robust tool for improving digital content accessibility. With it, you can scan your websites for accessibility issues and generate a detailed report.
## How Does Proper Heading Level Structure Affect Accessibility?
You previously learned about proper heading level structure. Now, you will learn how a good heading structure affects accessibility.

Proper use of headings creates a visual hierarchy for users to navigate and understand your web page. Using a logical heading hierarchy allows screen reader users to understand the structure of your content and navigate your content quickly. Creating appropriate heading text that accurately describes the content that follows helps everyone find the information they need on your site. As an additional benefit, well-formed headings may also improve the SEO of your site.

Headings, ranging from `h1` to `h6`, create a navigational structure for screen reader users. Screen readers can list all headings on a page, allowing users to jump directly to the sections they need. So, correctly arranging headings is important for helping these users avoid unnecessary content and finding the information they are looking for quickly.

People with partial sight or cognitive disabilities need to process information quickly and easily to reduce cognitive load. While proper arrangement of headings is important, it is also necessary to make heading texts clear and descriptive.

Here are some key practices to follow to use headings properly:
- Use headings in a hierarchy that reflects clear organization. For example, the page title should be an `h1`, major sections should be introduced with `h2` headings, subsections with `h3` , and so on, down to `h6`.
- Don't skip from `h1` to `h3`, or from `h2` to `h4`, and so on.
- Use clear and descriptive text that summarizes the content that follows each heading.
- Don't use a heading in isolation – some content must follow the heading.
- Use appropriate headings where necessary instead of formatting text to look like headings.
- Each page should have a single `h1` element representing the main topic or title.

Here's a basic markup that represents how you should use headings on a page.

```html
<!-- Page title -->
<h1>What is HTML</h1>

<!-- First section -->
<section>
  <h2>Introduction to HTML</h2>
  <p>
    HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. It is the standard language for
    creating web pages.
  </p>
</section>
<!-- Second section -->
<section>
  <h2>History of HTML</h2>
  <p>HTML began to take shape in the early 90s</p>
  <h3>Origins</h3>
  <p>
    HTML was created by Tim Berners-Lee in 1991. It has evolved significantly
    over the years.
  </p>
</section>
```
## What Are Best Practices for Tables and Accessibility?
When we see a table, we immediately start making visual associations between the data and the headers. For example, let's say we have a table representing our pets. We have two dogs and two cats and the table is showing us their names and ages. While a sighted person may be able to understand the relationships in this table, making the connections between the values and the headers is much harder for people who use screen readers to navigate the table.

So, let's see how you can create accessible tables that everyone can understand. The first best practice that we will cover is using table caption. With the `caption` element, you can write the caption (or title) of a table, so users, especially those who use assistive technologies, can quickly understand the table's purpose and content. You should place the `caption` element immediately after the opening tag of the `table` element. This way, screen readers and other assistive technologies can provide more context by announcing the caption before reading the content.

Now let's talk about row and column headers. Headers are special cells, typically found at the start of a row or column, that describe the type of data stored in the row or column. You can define a row or column header with the table header element, `th`.

Associating the data cells with their corresponding headers is also very important for screen readers. The `scope` attribute determines if a header is a row header or a column header. Screen readers may guess this correctly from the table's structure, but it's usually recommended to explicitly indicate the `scope` to ensure clarity. The `scope` attribute has four possible values. The two you will use most often are `col` for column and `row` for row. In the code below, you can see that we added the `scope` attribute to the column and row headers. The three column headers (`Name`, `Age`, and `Type`) have a `scope` of `col`, column.

```html
<table>
  <caption>Our Pets</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <!-- Now they have scope -->
      <th scope="col">Name</th>
      <th scope="col">Age</th>
      <th scope="col">Type</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Nora</th>
      <td>5</td>
      <td>Dog</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Gino</th>
      <td>2</td>
      <td>Cat</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
```

However, some screen readers may not be able to interpret tables with complex structures, so you should also try to flatten the table as much as possible to avoid row and column headers that span across multiple cells. Your goal should always be to make sure users can access this information, even if their screen readers can handle complex table structures.
## Why Is It Important for Inputs to Have an Associated Label?
Labels on input fields might seem like small details, but they play a crucial role in making forms easier for everyone to use. Labels help people with disabilities, make forms more user-friendly for everyone, and ultimately improve form conversion rates.

Screen readers often rely on labels to describe the purpose of input fields. In order for this to work properly, the label must be programmatically associated with the `input`. While there are several ways to do that, the most common is to use the HTML `label` element.

Associating labels with all input fields also benefits SEO. With proper labels, search engines will understand the page content better, leading to a positive impact on the page search rankings.
## What Is the Purpose of WAI-ARIA, and How Does It Work?
**WAI-ARIA** stands for *Web Accessibility Initiative* - *Accessible Rich Internet Applications*. It's a specification that enhances accessibility for dynamic content and UI (User Interface) components. Note that WCAG and WAI-ARIA are not the same. WCAG provides general guidelines for web accessibility, while WAI-ARIA offers specific rules for making dynamic and interactive content accessible for users of assistive technologies.

So, the primary purpose of WAI-ARIA is to improve accessibility for dynamic content and UI components that do not have native HTML equivalents. WAI-ARIA works by introducing a set of attributes you can add to HTML elements to provide additional semantic information. These attributes are categorized into roles, states, and properties.

Here is an example of setting the role to `button` for a `div` element.

```html
<div role="button">Click Me</div>
```

By doing this you are indicating to assistive technology that the element is a button. Roles do not provide any functionality however. Merely giving this `div` a `role` of `button` will not make it act like a button. To make it look and behave like a button you would need to use CSS and JavaScript to get the desired result. This will make the elements understandable and navigable for users of assistive technologies.

Use WAI-ARIA only when HTML falls short, and don’t forget to test with assistive technologies like screen readers, or have people with disabilities test your work. Also, make sure your WAI-ARIA states and properties update with the content in real time. Avoid overusing ARIA, as it can often be confusing.
## What Are ARIA Roles?
**ARIA** stands for *Accessible Rich Internet Applications*. ARIA roles specify the semantic meaning of HTML elements. They're essential for making web content accessible to people who use assistive technologies, like screen readers.

Many semantic HTML elements already have an ARIA role assigned by default. For example, the `button` element has a default ARIA role of `button`.

```html
<button>Example button</button>
```

To specify the ARIA role of an element, you just need to add the `role` attribute, like this `role="ARIA role"`, where value is the name of a role in the ARIA specification.

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">

<div class="alert" id="exp-warning" role="alert">
  <span class="hidden">Your log in session will expire in 3 minutes.</span>
</div>
```

It is important to note that specifying a role on an element only does one thing: It informs assistive technology of the purpose of the element. It does not add any functionality or behavior to the element. If people expect a role to behave a certain way, it is up to you, the developer, to add that expected behavior.

There are six main categories of ARIA roles:
- Document structure roles
- Widget roles
- Landmark roles
- Live region roles
- Window roles
- Abstract roles
## What Are the Roles of the aria-label and aria-labelledby Attributes?
For people using screen readers, the `aria-label` and `aria-labelledby` attributes provide crucial information about page elements that might be unclear or invisible.

The `aria-label` attribute is an invisible label for interactive elements. It adds a text label to an element that screen readers can read. `aria-label` is especially useful for elements that do not have visible text but still need to be described by screen readers. For example, buttons with only icons often need `aria-label` to convey their purpose.

```html
<button aria-label="Search">
  <i class="fa-solid fa-magnifying-glass"></i>
</button>
```

In this case, a screen reader may announce this button as `Search, button`, even though the button only contains an icon. The `aria-label` attribute tells screen readers what text to use in place of the icon.

The `aria-labelledby` attribute does the exact same thing as the `aria-label` attribute, but instead of defining the text directly in the attribute, you use a reference to text that already exists on the page. The existing text must have an `id` attribute, which will be used for the reference value in the `aria-labelledby` attribute.

```html
<input type="text" aria-labelledby="search-btn">
<button type="button" id="search-btn">Search</button>
```

In this case, the text for the button is being used as the label for the search input. Screen readers will announce the input as something like `Search, edit`. If you later decide you want to change the button text to `Find`, the label for the input will automatically be updated to the new text since it is referencing the button text. Combining multiple `id` values into a single `aria-labelledby` attribute value is also possible.

You've seen that both `aria-label` and `aria-labelledby` attributes help screen readers understand what elements do. So, which one should you use? Since they both provide the same functionality, either can be used, but there may be a few advantages to using `aria-labelledby` over `aria-label`:
- If someone is using a translation service to translate the content on your page, the text in an `aria-label` attribute may not always be translated.
- Using `aria-labelledby` can also help prevent a mismatch between the visible label text and the invisible label for screen reader users since updating the visible text will automatically update the invisible label.
- `aria-labelledby` can make it much easier to programmatically create complex invisible labels consisting of multiple sources of text.
## What Is the aria-hidden Attribute, and How Does It Work?
If you ever need to display content while at the same time hiding it from people who use assistive technology, like screen readers, you can use the `aria-hidden` attribute. You just need to add it to the HTML element that you want to hide and set its value to `true`, like you can see over here: `aria-hidden="true"`.

This attribute hides the element and all of its children from the accessibility tree, while keeping them visible on the page. Common use cases include
- Icons and images that only have a decorative purpose.
- Duplicated content.

It is important to remember that `aria-hidden` only hides content from assistive technology, such as screen readers. If the content should be hidden from everyone, then you should not use `aria-hidden` to hide it. For example, a hamburger menu that is currently collapsed must be hidden from all keyboard users, not just screen reader users. In this case you could set the CSS `display` property to `none` on the menu to remove it from the DOM when it is collapsed.

You should never use `aria-hidden` to hide an element that is focusable with the keyboard. The `aria-hidden` attribute only removes the element from the accessibility tree. It does not remove it from the DOM. Thus, it will still be possible for screen reader users to tab to the element, but their screen reader will not announce the element, effectively causing them to focus on "nothing".

Setting `aria-hidden` to `false` will not expose the element to assistive technologies if any of its parents has this attribute set to `true`.

While it can be helpful for hiding purely decorative elements and duplicated content, it should be used sparingly to avoid hindering accessibility.
## What Is the aria-describedby Attribute, and How Does It Work?
The `aria-describedby` attribute is used to provide additional information about an element to screen reader users by referencing existing content on the page. It creates a programmatic association between the element and the content (technically referred to as an accessible description), which screen readers can use to inform users of the additional information when they interact with the element. The most common use for `aria-describedby` is to associate instructions and error messages with form inputs. Due to the various methods screen reader users have for navigating a page, they may miss these messages when navigating between inputs. Using `aria-describedby` helps ensure that they will hear them.

The `aria-describedby` attribute is a powerful attribute that can be used to help ensure that additional information about an element is provided to screen reader users when they interact with the element. It is most commonly used to associate instructions and error messages with form inputs in order to reduce the chance that screen reader users will miss these messages as they navigate the form.
## When Is the alt Attribute Needed?
Alternative text, often abbreviated as `alt` text, is a brief text description of an image. It provides essential information about the image for users who cannot see it, such as people who use screen readers and other assistive technologies. It's essential for making websites accessible to people with visual disabilities.

Alternative text is also used by search engines to understand images. Some browsers may also display it when an image is not loaded properly. This can happen when the image file is missing or when the user has connectivity issues. So it's helpful for many different purposes.

It is important to note that there is no one correct way to write alt text for an image. What you include in your description will depend on the context the picture is used in. For example, if the puppy picture was on a website about dog breeds, you might want to include more specifics about the physical description of the puppy and possibly ignore the fact that the puppy is at the beach playing with an orange ball. Ultimately, the `alt` text you use for an image should reflect the primary purpose for including the image on the page, and the information you provide should give people who can't see the image the necessary details to understand that purpose.

 let's see some of the best practices to create a good `alt` text
 - You should try to keep `alt` text short. It should be detailed enough to understand the image but not so long that it becomes confusing.
- You should not try to describe every little detail. Focus on the most important aspects of the image.
- Generally, you don't need to start with "image of" or "picture of." You can just start the description directly.
- Also, if there's similar text around the image, you don't need to write it again.
- It's usually recommended to end the alt text with a period for consistency.
- If the image is a link to another page, instead of describing the image itself, the `alt` text should describe what will happen if users click on it.

Every image on your website should have an `alt` attribute, even if it's empty. If you omit the `alt` attribute completely, some screen readers will read the file name instead, which can be distracting for people who use assistive technologies, so this is not recommended.
## What Are the Accessibility Benefits for Good Link Text?
The first visible benefit of a good link text is that it makes it easier for everyone to find information quickly. Descriptive links help users know where they're headed and what they'll access. This ensures the user doesn't feel lost and improves the overall user experience. Making link text clear and descriptive isn't just beneficial for those living with visual impairments. Descriptive links also help people with cognitive disabilities by providing clear context.

Here are some best practices to keep in mind while writing link texts
- Make sure links are visually distinct by using underlining and other visual cues, so users can easily identify and navigate them.
- Avoid generic link texts like "here", "click here", and "more-info" as they don't provide any useful information.
- Aim for concise and descriptive link texts, ideally between 2-5 words, that convey the link's purpose.
- Avoid jargon and abbreviations that users may not understand.
- Focus on the destination, not the action. For example, "user behavior results", instead of "click here to read more".
- Don’t repeat the same link text for different destinations.
- Place links in a way that they make sense within the surrounding text. For example, "for more details, visit our events page" instead of "Click here for more".
## What Are Good Ways to Make Audio and Video Content Accessible?
Multimedia, especially video, has become the go-to format for sharing information online. With this surge in content, there's a growing need to ensure everyone can access and enjoy video and audio content online, irrespective of their abilities or environment. Making your audio and video content accessible isn't just a nice-to-have, it's essential for reaching a wider audience. Let's look at some inexpensive ways to make your video and audio content more accessible.

A video is not just about visuals but also audio, so the first thing you should consider doing is adding captions or subtitles to your video content. Captions provide the text version of spoken words and important non-verbal sounds, like music or laughter, synchronized with the video. Subtitles on the other hand are essential for people who don't understand the language you're speaking. This helps not only people who are deaf or hard of hearing but also those watching videos in noisy or quiet environments. To add captions or subtitles to your video or audio content, you can use the `track` element inside your `video` or `audio` element. The `kind` attribute is used to tell the track element how it should be used. Valid values for the `kind` attribute include `captions`, `subtitles`, `chapters`, and `metadata`. The `srclang` attribute represents the language for the `track` content. The `label` attribute is a descriptive title for the text track that browsers use to identify and display it in the list of available text tracks.

Another important thing to consider is providing a transcript for your audio and video content. A transcript is a text version of all the spoken words in your audio or video. Unlike captions, transcripts don’t need to be synchronized with the media. Transcripts are useful for deaf people and those hard of hearing. They're also beneficial for people who prefer reading instead of watching or listening. Transcripts also make your content searchable, allowing users to quickly find specific parts of your audio or video.

Other ways to make your video and audio content accessible include
- Adding a sign language overlay for videos for deaf people and those hard of hearing.
- Providing volume and speed controls.
- Ensuring good contrast for on-screen text.
- Offering multiple formats.
## What Are Some Ways to Make Web Applications Keyboard Accessible?
Many users rely on keyboards instead of mice due to physical disabilities, repetitive strain injuries, or personal preference. This includes users of screen readers and those who may not have a working mouse. Keyboard accessibility ensures these users can navigate web applications effectively without barriers.

Many users rely on the `Tab` key to move through interactive elements on a webpage. By default, browsers let users tab through elements like links, buttons, and form fields in the order they appear in the HTML. This is called the natural tab order. Sometimes, you may want to adjust which elements are focusable or change their focus order. The `tabindex` attribute allows you do this.

```html
<element tabindex="number">Element Text</element>
```

`tabindex="-1"` makes an element focusable programmatically. This is useful for managing focus in elements that are not normally focusable, such as headings, containers, dialogs, or error messages.

```html
<p tabindex="-1">Sorry, there was an error with your submission.</p>
```

When the `tabindex` is greater than `0` it sets a custom tab order. So elements with lower positive values are focused first.

`accesskey` is another attribute you can use to make your web project keyboard accessible. It allows you to define a key that focuses on or activates a particular element. Here is an interactive example you can try out following the suggestions below (enable the interactive editor first)
- `accesskey="s"` assigns the key `S` to the `Save` button. On most browsers, pressing `ALT + S` (on Windows) and `CTRL + Option + S` (on Mac) will activate this button.
- `accesskey="c"` sets the key `C` to the `Cancel` button, allowing users to activate it using `ALT + C` (Windows) and `CTRL + Option + C` (Mac).
- `accesskey="h"` assigns the key `H` to the `Home` link, allowing users to navigate to the homepage using `ALT + H` (Windows) and `CTRL + Option + H` (Mac).

The `accesskey` attribute can be problematic because it may conflict with existing shortcuts or behave inconsistently across devices and keyboards, and is often not intuitive for users to discover or remember. If you choose to use `accesskey`, it should be done with clear guidance to users, but in most cases it's better to avoid `accesskey` in websites and web applications.