## What Are Pseudo-classes, and How Do They Work?
*Pseudo-classes* are special CSS keywords that allow you to select an element based on its specific state or position. The element's state or position could include
- When it's active
- When it's being hovered over by a mouse
- When it's the first child of a parent
- When it's the last child of a parent
- When a link has been visited
- When it's disabled

To use a pseudo-class, you add it to the selector by using a colon (`:`) followed by the name of the pseudo-class

```css
selector:pseudo-class {
	/* CSS properties */
}
```

The `:active` pseudo-class lets you select the active state of an element, like clicking on a button. The `:hover` pseudo-class defines the hover state of an element. The `:first-child` pseudo-class selects an element that is the first child of its parent element. The `:last-child` pseudo-class targets the last element that is the child of its parent. The `:visited` pseudo-class lets you style a link the user has already visited. The `:disabled` pseudo-class lets you style an interactive element in disabled mode.

Apart from the pseudo-classes already mentioned, there are others like
- `:focus`
- `:first-of-type`
- `:last-of-type`
- `:nth-of-type`
- `:modal`
- `:enabled`
- `:checked`
- `:required`
and more.
## What Are Examples of Element User Action Pseudo-classes?
User feedback is a crucial element of web design. For instance, it's important for users to receive visual cues when they interact with elements on a website, such as hovering over a button or clicking a link. This feedback helps users understand the state of interactive elements, like indicating whether a link has been visited or not.

*User action pseudo-classes* in CSS are special keywords that allow you to provide this kind of feedback without needing JavaScript or other programming languages. These pseudo-classes include `:hover`, `:active`, `:focus` and `:visited`, among others. They enable you to change the appearance of elements based on user interactions, improving the overall user experience.

The `:active` pseudo-class applies styles when an element is activated by the user. For example, when the user clicks a button or a link, it provides immediate visual feedback, showing users that their actions are being recognized.

The `:hover` pseudo-class is triggered when a user hovers over an element with their mouse or other pointing device. Developers often use it to create visual feedback for buttons, links or any element that should respond to user attention.

The `:focus` pseudo-class applies styles when an element gains focus, typically through keyboard navigation or when a user clicks into a form input. This is not just for feedback but also crucial for accessibility. It ensures that users who rely heavily on keyboards can easily identify which element they are interacting with.

The `:visited` pseudo-class targets a link the user has visited. This can be useful for helping users distinguish between pages they have already visited and the ones they are yet to visit.

The `:checked` pseudo-class in CSS allows you to style form elements such as checkboxes and radio buttons when they are selected (checked). This pseudo-class is useful for customizing the appearance of these elements to enhance user experience, even though browsers provide default styles for them.

Other examples of pseudo-classes are
- `:focus-within`, for applying styles to an element when it or any of its descendant have focus
- `:enabled`, for targeting form buttons or other elements that are currently enabled
- `:disabled`, for targeting form buttons or other elements that are currently disabled
- `:target`, for applying styles to an element that is the target of a URL fragment (the part of a URL after the `#` symbol)
## What Are Examples of Input Pseudo-classes?
The appearance and behavior of input elements matter when building web forms. A form with inputs that respond to user actions goes a long way in improving user experience and it should not cause confusion or frustration. CSS provides several input pseudo-classes that can make your forms more intuitive and user-friendly, some of which we have already seen (`:hover`, `:focus`, etc).

The `:required` pseudo-class targets input elements that have the `required` attribute. It signals to the user that they must fill out the field to submit the form. When validating forms, you can use the `:valid` pseudo-class to style the input fields that meed the validation criteria and `:invalid` to style the input fields that do not meet the criteria. Typically, you will use green for a valid input and red for an invalid input.

The `:disabled` pseudo-class allows you to select and style input elements that are disabled. These elements have the `disabled` attribute, which prevents users from interacting with them. When an input is disabled, it cannot be clicked, focused or edited.

```css
.text-input:disabled {
  background-color: lightgray;
  cursor: not-allowed;
}
```

The `cursor: not-allowed;` CSS property value changes the appearance of the cursor to indicate that an action is not permitted. When applied to an element, it shows a cursor with a circle-slash symbol (usually a circle with a diagonal line through it) to signal to users that the element is not interactive or cannot be clicked or interacted with.

Here are some other examples of input pseudo-classes and what they do:
- `:autofill`: applies styles to input fields that the browser automatically fills with saved data
- `:optional`: styles input elements that are not required and can be left empty
- `:in-range` and `:out-of-range`: style elements based on whether their values are within or outside specified range constraints
## What Are Examples of Location Pseudo-classes?
*Location pseudo-classes* are used for styling links and elements that are targeted within the current document. They offer a way to apply styles based on whether a link is visited or whether an element is currently in focus.

The `:link` pseudo-class allows you to target all unvisited links on a webpage. You can use it to style links differently before the user clicks on them. Once the user clicks the link, the style no longer applies and the `:visited` pseudo-class takes over. The `:visited` pseudo-class comes into play after the user clicks the link, so you can use it to target links the user has already clicked.

The `:local-link` pseudo-class targets links that point to the same document. It can be useful when you want to differentiate internal links from external ones. Currently, no browsers support the `:local-link` pseudo-class.

The `:target` pseudo-class selects an element that matches the current URL fragment identifier, for example, `#section1`. It's very useful for pages with in-page navigation.
## What Are Examples of Tree-structural Pseudo-classes?
*Tree-structural pseudo-classes* allow you to target and style elements based on their position within the document tree. The document tree refers to the hierarchical structure of elements in an HTML document.

The `:root` pseudo-class is usually the root `html` element. It helps you target the highest level in the document so you can apply a common style to the entire document. The `:root` pseudo-class is also commonly used in setting CSS variables.

```css
:root {
  --main-font: 'Arial, sans-serif';
  --primary-color: blue; 
  --secondary-color: green; 
}
```

Empty elements, that is, elements with no children other than white space, are also included in the document tree. That's why there's an `:empty` pseudo-class to target empty elements.

`:nth-child(n)` allows you to select elements based on their position within a parent, while `:nth-last-child(n)` enables you to select elements by counting from the end. The `n` can be a specific number or a keyword like `odd` or `even`. This is incredibly useful styling table cells based on position: even or odd.

The `:first-child`, `:last-child` and `:only-child` pseudo-class all act on items within a parent container or the entire document.
- `:first-child` selects the first element in a parent element or the document
- `:last-child` selects the last element in a parent element or the document
- `:only-child` selects the only element in a parent element or the document

The `:first-of-type` and `:last-of-type` pseudo-classes select the first and last occurrence of a specific element type within its parent. They are useful for applying unique styles to the first or last instance of that element type among its siblings.

`:nth-of-type(n)` allows you to select a specific element within its parent based on its position among siblings of the same type.

`:only-of-type` selects an elements if it's the only one of its type within its parent. This can be useful for emphasizing single items or ensuring that they are styled differently when they're not part of a group.
## What Are Examples of Functional Pseudo-classes?
*Functional pseudo-classes* allow you to select elements based on more complex conditions or relationships. Unlike regular pseudo-classes which target elements based on a state, functional pseudo-classes accept arguments within parentheses, hence the name.

The `:is()` pseudo-class is useful when you want to style a group of elements that share some, but not all, characteristics. For example, you might want to style different types of buttons on your website, including `button` elements, links styles as buttons and `input` elements with types `submit` and `reset`. Here's an example representing that. Without the `:is()` function, you would have to write a complex selector like this.

```css
button,
a.button,
input[type='submit'],
input[type='reset'] {
  background-color: darkblue;
  color: white;
  border: 1px solid darkblue;
  padding: 10px 20px;
  text-decoration: none;
  border-radius: 5px;
  cursor: pointer;
  display: inline-block;
  margin: 5px;
  font-size: 16px;
  text-align: center;
}

button:hover,
a.button:hover,
input[type='submit']:hover,
input[type='reset']:hover {
  background-color: blue;
  border-color: blue;
}
```

With the `:is()` function, you can write a more compact and understandable selector like this.

```css
:is(button, a.button, input[type='submit'], input[type='reset']) {
  background-color: darkblue;
  color: white;
  border: 1px solid darkblue;
  padding: 10px 20px;
  text-decoration: none;
  border-radius: 5px;
  cursor: pointer;
  display: inline-block;
  margin: 5px;
  font-size: 16px;
  text-align: center;
}

:is(button, a.button, input[type='submit'], input[type='reset']):hover {
  background-color: blue;
  border-color: blue;
}
```

The `:where()` pseudo-class functions similarly to `:is()` but it doesn't increase the specificity of your selectors. This makes it ideal for applying styles without affecting the specificity of other rules. For example, you can use the `:where()` function to apply zero `margin` and `padding` to heading elements. This ensures that the reset won't interfere with more specific styles you might apply later.

```css
:where(h1, h2, h3) {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
}
```

Styling a parent element based on its children's states was previously challenging until the `:has()` pseudo-class was introduced. It allows you to apply styles to a parent element based on the presence or state of its child elements.

```css
article:has(h2) {
  border: 2px solid hotpink;
}
```

The `:not()` pseudo-class is ideal for situations where you want to apply styles to a group of elements, excluding one or more specific exceptions.

```css
button {
  padding: 10px 20px;
  border-radius: 4px;
  cursor: pointer;
  font-size: 16px;
  border: none;
  color: white;
}

button.primary {
  background-color: deepskyblue;
}

button:not(.primary) {
  background-color: grey;
}
```
## What Are Pseudo-elements, and How Do They Work?
One of the most interesting aspects of CSS is the use of *pseudo-elements*. In this context, "pseudo" means "not real", so pseudo-elements are virtual or synthetic elements that don't directly match any actual HTML elements. They allow you to style specific parts of an element or insert content without adding extra HTML.

To apply a pseudo-element, attach it to the original element's selector using a double colon 
(`::`). Note that the selector can be of any type, such as class or ID selector.

```css
selector::pseudo-element {
  property: value;
}
```

This double colon is what distinguishes pseudo-elements from pseudo-classes, which use a single colon.

Pseudo-elements allow you to style specific parts of an element's content or insert content before or after it, but they cannot exist independently. The element of which a pseudo-element is attached is called its *originating element*.

The `::before` pseudo-element lets you insert content just before the element's content while the `::after` pseudo-element lets you insert content after it.

```css
.cta-button {
  background-color: lightseagreen;
  color: white;
  border: none;
  padding: 10px 20px;
  cursor: pointer;
  position: relative;
}

.cta-button::before {
  content: "⭐";
  position: absolute;
  left: 3px;
  top: 8px;
  font-size: 0.75rem;
}
```

The `content` property is used to represent the content you wish to add before the button text. In this example, we are adding a star.

You can also attach a pseudo-class to the content you insert into another content with the `::before` and `::after` pseudo-elements. For example, a hover state for the content.

```css
.cta-button {
  background-color: orange;
  border: none;
  padding: 10px 30px;
  cursor: pointer;
  position: relative;
}

.cta-button::after {
  content: "➡️";
  position: absolute;
  right: 5px;
  bottom: 6px;
  font-size: 1.125rem;
  transition: transform 0.3s ease;
}

.cta-button:hover::after {
  transform: translateX(2px);
}
```

In the next example, we will look at the `::first-letter` pseudo-element. The `::first-letter`
pseudo-element targets the first letter of an element's content, allowing you to style it.

The `::marker` pseudo-element lets you select the marker, bullet or numbering of list items for styling. The `::marker` pseudo-element offers a way to enhance your website's brand identity by customizing list markers to match your color scheme.