## What Are Some Best Practices for Styling Text Inputs?
As with all text elements you need to ensure the styles you apply to the text input are accessible. This means the font needs to be adequately sized and the color needs to have sufficient contrast with the background.

The placeholder, however, is often forgotten. It's important to remember that this is also text and you will likely need to change the styling to ensure it's readable.

Another thing to keep in mind is that you should allow the user to modify the input. For example, if it's a text area you should not remove the ability to resize it. The input should also scale accordingly when the user zooms on the page.

Input elements are also focusable. When you are editing your styles you should take care that you preserve a noticeable indicator when the element has focus such as a bold border.

Additionally there is the error state to consider. When the user's text doesn't pass the input validation there should be a visual indicator that shows there is something wrong.
## When Should You Use appearance: none to Deal with Issues Styling Search Inputs and Checkboxes?
Browsers apply default styling to a lot of elements. In the case of input elements your ability to style them with CSS can feel rather restricted. So, you may want to use the `appearance: none` to hide aspects of the default element to build your own instead. For example, this would hide the default checkboxes for a checkbox input allowing you to use custom indicators like a green tick and a red X to show the state.

*WebKit* is a software engine that helps web browsers display websites. Browsers like Safari use WebKit to make sure web pages look and work correctly. This `appearance: none` CSS property gives you the complete control over the styling, but it does come with some things to look out for. The default interactive components of input elements include features such as focus and error indicators which you will need to ensure aren't lost.
## What Are Common Issues When Styling Special Input Elements?
`datetime-local` and `color` are special types of inputs that rely on complex pseudo-elements to create things like the date and color pickers. This presents a significant challenge for styling these inputs. One challenge is that, because the default styling depends entirely on the browser, CSS that makes the picker look right in one browser may produce a very different result in another.

Another may be the complexity of the pseudo-element. Consider the date selector: there are a lot of moving parts and the complex structure of the pseudo-element might pose a significant challenge in applying styling to the right areas.

Of course, with these complex elements, you also run the risk of accidentally losing important functionality when you manually style them. Not only could you lose important indicators like the focus state or selected item but you could potentially break the selector entirely.

For these reasons many developers rely on JavaScript libraries or custom components entirely instead of using the browser's built-in components.
