## What Is CSS Flexbox, and When Should You Use It?
*CSS flexbox* is a one-dimensional layout model that allows you to arrange elements in rows and columns within a container. You can also control their order and orientation. Web developers use it to create responsive websites and web applications that adapt to different screen sizes and orientations. We refer to flexbox as a one-dimensional layout model because it focuses on arranging elements along a single axis at a time, which can be either horizontal or vertical.

There are two key concepts that you should know about before you start working with flexbox: **flex container** and **flex item**:

*Flex container* is an HTML with a flex layout. You can arrange and align elements in various ways within a flex container. To make an HTML element a flex container, you need to add the `display: flex;` to its CSS styles.

*Flex items* are the direct children of a flex container. These elements can be arranged and aligned within a flex container based on its properties. They can also shrink or expand to fit to available space.

By default, a flex container will be a block-level element, so the container itself will be on its own row relative to other elements and containers.

Flex properties determine how flex items will be arranged, resized and distributed within the flex container. Some of the most commonly used ones are `flex-direction`, `justify-content`,
`align-items` and `flex-wrap`.

Each flex container has two axes: the main axis and the cross axis. The orientation of these axes determines how different properties will affect the layout and distribution of the flex items. By default, the main axis of a flex container is horizontal and the cross axis is vertical. Flex items are arranged in the direction of the main axis. The cross axis is perpendicular to the main axis.

The `flex-direction` property sets the direction of the main axis. The default value of `flex-direction` is `row`, which places all the flex items on the same row, in the direction of your browser's default language. To reverse the items in the row, you can use `flex-direction: row-reverse;`. If you want to align the flex items vertically instead, you just need to set `flex-direction` to `column` in the flex container.
## What Are Some Common Flex Properties, and How Do They Work?
*Flex properties* are properties that you can apply to flex containers to determine the distribution of child elements. We'll cover some of the most commonly used ones: `flex-wrap`, `justify-content` and `align-items`.

`flex-wrap` determines how flex items are wrapped within a flex container to fit the available space. It can take three possible values: `nowrap` (default value), `wrap` and `wrap-reverse`. If you select `nowrap` flex items won't be wrapped onto a new line, even if their width exceeds the container's width. If you don't want to wrap them when they exceed the width of the container, you can set `flex-wrap: wrap;` on the flex container.

The `flex-flow` property is a shorthand property for `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap`. 

```css
main {
  width: 200px;
  display: flex;
  flex-flow: column wrap-reverse;
  border: 2px solid red;
}

div {
  width: 80px;
  height: 50px;
}

#first-div {
  background-color: #4d70b2;
}

#second-div {
  background-color: #5c4db2;
}

#third-div {
  background-color: #4da3b2;
}
```

`justify-content` aligns the child elements along the main axis of the flex container. If you assign the value `flex-start` to `justify-content`, the flex items will be aligned to the start of the main axis. This could be horizontal or vertical. With `justify-content: flex-end`, flex items are aligned to the end of the main axis, horizontally or vertically. To center the flex items along the main axis, you can use `justify-content: center`. To distribute the elements evenly along the main axis, you can use `justify-content: space-between`. This will add some space between the flex items if needed. `justify-content: space-around` distributes flex items evenly within the main axis, adding a space before the first item and after the last item. This additional space is half of the space between each pair of adjacent items. If there's only one item to distribute, it will be centered. And last but not least, we have `justify-content: space-evenly`, which distributes the items evenly along the main axis. The space between the items and the space before and after the first and last elements, are exactly the same.

you may also want to distribute them along the cross axis and you can do that with the `align-items` property. To center the items along the cross axis, you just need to add `align-items: center` to the flex container. In contrast, `align-items: flex-start` aligns the items to the start of the cross axis. The opposite is `align-items: flex-end`. This will align flex items to the end of the cross axis, vertically or horizontally. To stretch the flex items along the cross axis, you can use `align-items: stretch`. This also works with elements that are automatically sized, such as those without set `width` or `height`, or with only a minimum `width` or `height`.

You can use the `align-self` property to assign a different alignment on the cross axis to an individual flex item. You can center it with `align-self: center`. You can align it to the start of the cross axis with `align-self: flex-start`. Or you can align it to the end of the cross axis with `align-self: flex-end`.