## What Are the Fundamentals of Typography?
*Typography* is the art of choosing the right fonts and format to make text visually appealing and easy to read. "Type" refers to how the individual characters are designed and arranged. By choosing the right fonts for your project, you can evoke emotions, establish hierarchy and reinforce your brand's identity.

A *typeface* is the overall design and style of a set of characters, numbers and symbols. It's like a blueprint for a family of fonts. A *font* is a specific variation of a typeface with specific characteristics, such as size, style and width.

Two very important examples of typefaces are Serif and Sans Serif. The Serif typeface has a classical style with small lines at the end of characters and they are commonly used for printed materials, like books. In contrast, the Sans Serif typeface has a more modern look, without the small lines at the end of characters. Sans Serif typefaces are commonly used in digital design because they are easy to read on screen.

Typefaces can also be grouped if they share a similar design. Different weights and styles can be combined. These variations within the same font family typically include:
- Weight: The thickness of the characters, including light, regular, bold, and black.
- Style: The slant and orientation of the characters, like italic and oblique.
- Width: The horizontal space occupied by characters, like condensed and expanded.

The fundamental elements of typography are
- The *baseline*: the imaginary line on which most characters rest
- The *cap height*: height of the uppercase letters, measured from the baseline to the top
- The *x-height*: the average height of lowercase letters, excluding ascenders and descenders
- *Ascenders*: parts of lowercase letters that extend above the x-height, such as the tops of the letters `h`, `b`, `d` and `f`
- *Descenders*: parts of lowercase letters that extend below the baseline, such as the tails of `y`,
  `g`, `p` and `q`

There are more advanced concepts too, like
- *Kerning*: how space is adjusted between specific pairs of characters to improve their readability and aesthetics (for example, reducing the space between the letters `A` and `V`)
- *Tracking*: how space is adjusted between all characters in a block of text. It's essentially the distance between characters. It affects how dense and open the text will be
- *Leading*: the vertical space between lines of text. It's measured from the baseline of one line to the baseline of the next line

Line length can also have a significant impact on readability. If the text is too narrow, readers will need to refocus too often. If the text is too wide, they may experience fatigue.
## What Are Some Best Practices for Working with Typography in Your Designs?
In order to improve readability, you should choose clear and simple fonts to make your designs easy to understand. This is particularly important for the main text of your website. Users are more likely to engage with your content if the font is easy to read. Some frequently used fonts for web development are Roboto, Open Sans, Poppins, Lato and Barlow.

Text should also be large enough for everyone to read it. You should try to keep lines relatively short. The specific number of characters per line really depends on your project, but keeping lines short will make the content easier to read.

You should use two or three fonts at most to create a visual consistency. Using too many fonts can make the text more difficult to read and weaken your branding's identity. This can also impact the user experience by increasing the load time of the website. Once you choose these two or three fonts, use them consistently across different pages and elements. These fonts should be consistent with the overall design of your web application, product or service.

For accessibility purposes, you should follow the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines. The guidelines set the recommended contrast ratio for text. A higher contrast ratio makes text easier to read, especially for people with visual disabilities.

You should also provide options to adjust font size and avoid complex fonts as much as possible. As a general rule, you should use simple fonts whenever possible. If your content is easy to read, users are more likely to engage with it.
## What Are Font Families and How Do They Work?
A *font family* is a group of fonts that share a common design. All the fonts that belong to the same family are based on the same core typeface, but they also have variations in their style, weight and width. You can think of them as siblings who share similar characteristics but also have some differences. For example, Arial is a font family that includes variations like Arial Bold and Arial Italic.

In CSS, you can set the font family with the `font-family` property. 

```css
#arial-font {
  font-family: Arial;
}
```

But what if the font family is not found? You can specify multiple font families in order of priority, from highest to lowest, by separating them with commas. These alternative fonts will act as *fallback options*.

```css
#specified-font {
  font-family: Arial, Lato;
}
```

This process even works behind the scenes: the selection doesn't stop if the first font is available. The font family is chosen one character at a time, so if a font lacks a specific character, the browser looks for it in the lower-priority fonts.

In the context of web development, you'll also find generic font families. A generic font family is a default font that web browsers will render when the higher priority fonts are not available. To ensure that the content is still readable, the browser replaces the original font with the most appropriate font found, based on the generic font family specified. Some of the most commonly used ones are
- serif
- sans-serif
- monospace
- cursive
- fantasy
You should always include a generic font family at the end of the font-family list. Keep in mind that the generic font may look different from the font that you originally envisioned in your design, so it's always helpful to check how these fallback fonts look on different browsers.
## What Are Web Safe Fonts?
*Web-safe fonts* are a subset of fonts that are very likely to be installed on a computer or device. They are widely supported across different operating systems and web browsers, so it's very likely that they will be rendered and displayed consistently.

Browsers are responsible for interpreting and displaying fonts on a website. When the browser has to render a font, it tries to find the font file on the user's system. But if the font is not found, it will usually fall back to a default system font. This ensures that the content is still readable, even if the specific font that should be rendered on the website is missing.

However, the fallback font selected by the browser may look very different from the font that was originally supposed to be rendered. This can have a critical impact on the overall design and user experience. To avoid this, you should use web-safe fonts whenever possible. You have two options: use them as your primary fonts or you can use custom fonts with a web-safe font as a fallback option. This way, you can control how the website will look in case the custom font is not found.
## What Is the @font-face At-Rule, and How Does It Work?
*At-rules* are statements that provide instructions to the browser. You can use them to define various aspects of the stylesheet, such as media queries, keyframes, font faces and more.

With the `@font-face` rule, you can define a custom font by specifying the font file, format and other important properties, like weight and style. 

```css
@font-face {
  /* Descriptors */
}
```

Within the curly brackets, you will need to include descriptors to customize your font face. The font-family descriptor specifies the name that you will use throughout the stylesheets to refer to that font. 

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomFont";
}
```

For the `@font-face` at-rule to be valid, you also need to specify the `src`. This contains the references to the font resources. It's basically a list of external references or locally-installed font face names separated by commas. It can also include hints about the format and technology of the font resources.

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomFont"; 
  src: url("path/to/font.woff2"),
    url("path/to/font.woff"),
    url("path/to/font.otf");
}
```

You can call the `url()` function to include a file in your stylesheets. In this case, we are including the font files. You'll need to write the file path within parentheses and quotation marks, including the file extension. To improve readability, you can write each resource on a different line, but the last one should end with a semicolon.

For each font resource, you can optionally specify the format, which is an hint for the browser on the font format. If it's omitted, the resource will be downloaded and the format will be detected once downloaded. If the format is invalid, the resource won't be downloaded. Possible font formats include `collection`, `embedded-opentype`, `opentype`, `svg`, `truetype`, `woff`, and `woff2`.

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomFont"; 
  src: url("path/to/font.woff2") format("woff2"),
    url("path/to/font.otf") format("opentype"),
    url("path/to/font.woff") format("woff");
}
```

In addition to specifying the format, you can also specify the technology of the font resource.

```css
@font-face {
  font-family: "MyCustomFont"; 
  src: url("path/to/font.woff2") format("woff2"),
    url("path/to/font.otf") format("opentype") tech(color-COLRv1),
    url("path/to/font.woff") format("woff");
}
```
## How Do You Work with External Fonts Like Font Squirrel and Google Fonts?
An *external font* is a font file that is not included directly within your project files. They're usually hosted on a separate server. A server is a computer that provides data or services to other computers over a network. External fonts give you more flexibility because you can use custom fonts that may not be installed on the user's device.

**Google Fonts** and **Font Squirrel** are popular online resources for finding and using free fonts for web development purposes. You can incorporate them into your projects very easily.

For web development projects, you have two options. You can either use a `link` element or `@import`. If you choose the `link` element option, you can copy and paste the HTML snippet and the CSS rules to add them to your project. You should embed the code in the `head` element of your HTML file and add the CSS rules that fit your needs. If you choose the `@import` option instead, you will need to add that rule to your CSS file.

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto:ital,wght@0,100;0,300;0,400;0,500;0,700;0,900;1,100;1,300;1,400;1,500;1,700;1,900&display=swap');
```
## What Is the text-shadow Property, and How Does It Work?
CSS doesn't apply any shadows to the text by default, but if you need to apply shadows, you can use the `text-shadow` property.

In CSS, you can describe a shadow through a combination of its `X` offset, `Y` offset, blur radius and color. First, you need to specify the two offsets, which represent the horizontal and vertical distance of the shadow from the text, respectively (these values are required).

```css
p {
  text-shadow: 3px 2px;
}
```

In the browser, the text and the shadow will look similar but we can also customize the color of the shadow by specifying the value before or after the offset.

```css
p {
  text-shadow: 3px 2px #00ffc3;
}
```

Positive values of the `X` offset and `Y` offset will move the shadow right and down, respectively, while negative values will move the shadow left and up.

The blur radius is optional but makes the shadow look a lot smoother and more subtle. The default value of the radius blur is zero. The higher the value, the bigger the blur, which means that the shadow becomes lighter.

```css
p {
  text-shadow: 3px 2px 3px #00ffc3;
  /* offset - blur radius - color */
}
```

It's also helpful to know that the text can have more than one shadow. You just need to write them in the same `text-shadow` property separated by commas. They will be applied in layers, from front to back, with the first shadow at the top.