## What Is Accessibility?
Accessibility involves creating products and services that everyone can use. In the context of web development, it's making websites that everyone can understand and interact with, including people with visual, auditory, motor, and cognitive disabilities.

Some examples of disabilities that can impact users' online experience include:
- Blindness.
- Low vision.
- Color blindness.
- Deafness.
- Difficulty using keyboards, mice, or touchscreens.
- Attention disorders
- Memory issues.
- Difficulty speaking or understanding spoken language.
- Sensitivity to flashing lights.

To help you create accessible websites, the *World Wide Web Consortium*, known as **W3C**, developed a set of international standards that you can follow to make your websites more accessible and easier to use for people with disabilities. These standards are known as the *Web Content Accessibility Guidelines* (**WCAG**).

These guidelines are designed with four core principles in mind, known as **POUR**:
- `P` stands for Perceivable. Users must be able to perceive the information that you are presenting. For example, you can provide alternative text for images, so users who access your website with a screen reader can understand them.
- `O` stands for Operable. Users must be able to interact with the user interface. For example, you can make sure that all functionality is accessible through the keyboard too, not just the mouse.
- `U` stands for Understandable. Users must be able to understand the information. For example, you can avoid complex sentences and use simple language as much as possible.
- `R` stands for Robust. A wide range of browsers and other tools, including assistive technologies, must be able to interpret the content.

If your content doesn't follow any one of these core principles, not everyone will be able to use your website. To check if you are following these guidelines correctly, you can access the Quick Reference of the World Wide Web Consortium. There, you will find a comprehensive list of criteria and techniques.
## What Are Screen Readers, and Who Uses Them?
Screen readers are assistive technology programs that help blind and visually impaired people use computers and mobile devices. Screen readers are not just tools for the blind and visually impaired to access computers and mobile devices.

There's a common misconception that screen readers are text-to-speech devices. However, text-to-speech is just one of the features of a screen reader. Some screen readers even render the text to braille output instead of speech. Apart from text-to-speech and braille output, other notable features of screen readers are navigation aids and web browsing assistance.

Screen reader programs are also not only made for the blind and visually impaired. Dyslexic individuals and people with cognitive disabilities also use screen readers. All the popular operating systems out there have screen readers built into them.

One major challenge for screen reader users is that many software developers don't design their products with screen-reader friendliness and accessibility in mind. Even though accessibility is a broad topic, every developer needs to learn how to make their web software accessible for the blind and visually impaired, as well as other groups of people with disabilities.
## What Are Large Text or Braille Keyboards, and Who Uses Them?
Large text and braille keyboards are designed for users with visual disabilities. In Large Text Keyboards, also called Large Print Keyboards, the letters, numbers, and symbols are larger compared to standard keyboards. This design is helpful for people who may find smaller text in the keys difficult to see. Most of them also have enhanced contrast and brightness.

A large print keyboard made by the brand MaxiAids has yellow keys with black, big, and bold letters, numbers, and symbols on them. This is helpful for people with low vision. Another keyboard is the black large print keyboard with white print on the keys. This keyboard is also backlit, so users can adjust its brightness to different lighting conditions.

While large print keyboards provide visual cues for users with low vision, braille keyboards provide a completely tactile experience for people with more severe vision disabilities, including people who are blind. Braille is a tactile reading and writing system. It consists of raised dots arranged in specific patterns to represent letters, numbers, and punctuation. Braille keyboards use this system to help users find the right keys on the keyboard by feeling these patterns with their fingers. The keys have raised dots in patterns that represent letters, numbers and symbols.
## What Are Alternative Pointing Devices Such as Trackballs, Joysticks, and Touchpads Used For?
Alternative pointing devices are input devices that make good alternatives to the traditional mouse. They are essential for improving computer accessibility for those with disabilities, forelimb impairments, and limited mobility. Common examples of alternative pointing devices are trackballs, joysticks, and touchpads.

A trackball is a stationary pointing device that consists of a large, movable ball within a socket. It also includes additional buttons for clicking and performing other functions.

A joystick is a pointing device primarily designed for games and certain industrial applications like machinery control. It consists of a lever that pivots up, down, left, and right, and often includes additional buttons for various actions.

A touchpad is a flat, touch-sensitive device built into laptops and some keyboards. It allows users to control the cursor on the screen by sliding their fingers across its surface.
## What Are Screen Magnifiers Used For?
Screen magnifiers are tools that help people with low vision and other visual impairments better access digital content and the web.

Screen magnifiers work by enlarging texts, graphics, and other elements on a computer or mobile device screen. Many screen magnifiers allow users to enlarge the display by more than 200%. Users can then navigate the page using their pointing device or keyboard. Additionally, most magnifiers offer customizable zoom percentages and other features in their settings. Screen magnifiers primarily help people with low vision read text, as small fonts in documents or applications can be challenging for them. By enlarging the text, they can read emails, articles, and other content without straining their eyes. Screen magnifiers also assist with web browsing. They help users locate and click on buttons, links, and other interactive elements that might be difficult to see. This improved visibility ensures that users can browse websites, fill out forms, and engage in online activities without difficulty.

Apart from the ones built into operating systems, some useful third party screen magnifiers are:
- ZoomText for Windows.
- ClaroView for both macOS and Windows.
- iZoom for Windows.
- Zoomify - Screen Magnifier for macOS.
- LunarPluse for Windows.
- Loupe for macOS.
## What Is Voice Recognition Software Used For?
Voice recognition software helps people with disabilities interact with computers and other digital devices. 

Let's discuss what voice recognition software is and the role it plays in digital inclusion. In the context of accessibility, voice recognition tools let people with disabilities use their voice to pass commands to perform various tasks instead of using traditional input devices like keyboards and mice. This includes writing emails and other documents, surfing the net, and controlling smart home devices.

Here are the specific people who may find voice recognition software significantly helpful:
- People with visual impairments, including those with low-vision or blindness.
- Individuals with mobility impairments, such as limited use of hands and arms or conditions like arthritis and carpal tunnel syndrome.
- Those recovering from hand or arm injuries.
- Individuals with cognitive disorders, like memory issues or attention deficit disorders.
- Elderly individuals who might find it easier to use voice commands.
## What Are Some Common Accessibility Auditing Tools to Use?
Accessibility is a crucial yet often overlooked aspect of digital content. When making your digital content accessible, it's important to ensure it meets accessibility standards.

An accessibility auditing tool is an application that helps you improve the accessibility of your digital content by reporting accessibility issues that can be easily found through automated testing. This content includes websites, web applications, and mobile apps.

It is important to note that while automated accessibility tools have a role in improving accessibility, they typically will only find about a third of all possible accessibility issues. Therefore, it is important not to rely on them entirely to evaluate the accessibility of your content. Manual testing, preferably by people with disabilities, will always be required to ensure that your content is as accessible as possible.

*Google Lighthouse* is a popular web metric checker you can use directly within Chrome DevTools or online. This means you can check not only live websites but also locally-developed ones.

*WAVE* is another reliable accessibility checker you can use as a Chrome extension or on the web. All you need to do is enter the URL of your website and a comprehensive accessibility report will be generated for you. This report includes accessibility features implemented, ARIA, and contrasts.

The *IBM Equal Accessibility Checker* is another robust tool for improving digital content accessibility. With it, you can scan your websites for accessibility issues and generate a detailed report.
## How Does Proper Heading Level Structure Affect Accessibility?
You previously learned about proper heading level structure. Now, you will learn how a good heading structure affects accessibility.

Proper use of headings creates a visual hierarchy for users to navigate and understand your web page. Using a logical heading hierarchy allows screen reader users to understand the structure of your content and navigate your content quickly. Creating appropriate heading text that accurately describes the content that follows helps everyone find the information they need on your site. As an additional benefit, well-formed headings may also improve the SEO of your site.

Headings, ranging from `h1` to `h6`, create a navigational structure for screen reader users. Screen readers can list all headings on a page, allowing users to jump directly to the sections they need. So, correctly arranging headings is important for helping these users avoid unnecessary content and finding the information they are looking for quickly.

People with partial sight or cognitive disabilities need to process information quickly and easily to reduce cognitive load. While proper arrangement of headings is important, it is also necessary to make heading texts clear and descriptive.

Here are some key practices to follow to use headings properly:
- Use headings in a hierarchy that reflects clear organization. For example, the page title should be an `h1`, major sections should be introduced with `h2` headings, subsections with `h3` , and so on, down to `h6`.
- Don't skip from `h1` to `h3`, or from `h2` to `h4`, and so on.
- Use clear and descriptive text that summarizes the content that follows each heading.
- Don't use a heading in isolation – some content must follow the heading.
- Use appropriate headings where necessary instead of formatting text to look like headings.
- Each page should have a single `h1` element representing the main topic or title.

Here's a basic markup that represents how you should use headings on a page.

```html
<!-- Page title -->
<h1>What is HTML</h1>

<!-- First section -->
<section>
  <h2>Introduction to HTML</h2>
  <p>
    HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. It is the standard language for
    creating web pages.
  </p>
</section>
<!-- Second section -->
<section>
  <h2>History of HTML</h2>
  <p>HTML began to take shape in the early 90s</p>
  <h3>Origins</h3>
  <p>
    HTML was created by Tim Berners-Lee in 1991. It has evolved significantly
    over the years.
  </p>
</section>
```