## What is Python and what are some common uses in the industry?
Python is the *most popular general purpose programming language*. It's the **main language** for data science and machine learning. It's used in backends and as a tool in cybersecurity.
## What are the common data types in Python and how do you get the type of a variable?
**Types** present in Python: int, float, complex ($\textnormal{var} = 7 + 5j$, where $j$ is an imaginary number), string, boolean, dictionary, tuple, range, list and None.
In order to get the type of a variable, use the function `type(var)`, or `isinstance(var, var_type)` (checks if `var` is `var_type` and returns a boolean).
You can insert type hints
- `var : var_type = ...` means that after the equal sign is to be expected a `var_type` variable
- `def funct(...) -> f_type : [...]` means that the expected return value is `f_type`
## How do you work with strings?
`"..."` is a single line string. `"""..."""` is a multiline string.
If the string contains single or double quotation mark, you can
1. use the opposite kind of quotes (in the declaration)
2. escape with the backslash character
Strings can be concatenated with addition. If you want to concatenate a different type of variable you have to convert it using `str(var)`.
There are **f-string** which are formattable $\rightarrow$ `f"{var1} {var2}"`, where `var1` and `var2` don't have to be strings. You can even calculate operations inside the curly brackets.
`len(string)` is a function that gives back the length of the string.
Every character of a string is indexable (`string[0]`, `string[n]`, `string[-1]` $\rightarrow$ backwards).
**String slicing** $\rightarrow$ `string[start:stop:(step)]`, step is one by default.
## What are some common string string methods?
- `.upper()` $\rightarrow$ return string converted to uppercase
- `.lower()` $\rightarrow$ same thing but to lowercase
-  $\rightarrow$ removes specified leading and trailing characters. If not specified it removes whitespaces
- `.replace(old, new)` $\rightarrow$ replace every occurrence of `old` with `new` (inside the string)
- `.split(separator)` $\rightarrow$ split string on a specified separator into a list. The default separator is whitespace
- `.join(iterable)` $\rightarrow$ joins element of a list into a string with separator
- `.startswith(prefix)` $\rightarrow$ returns boolean indicating if string starts with prefix
- `.endswith(suffix)` $\rightarrow$ same thing but if string ends with suffix
- `.find(substring)` $\rightarrow$ returns index of the first occurrence of substring in string. Returns -1 if it doesn't find it
- `.count(substring)` $\rightarrow$ returns number of times substring appears in string
- `.capitalize()` $\rightarrow$ new string with the first character capitalized
- `.isupper()` $\rightarrow$ boolean of "if all characters are uppercase"
- `.islower()` $\rightarrow$ same thing but with lowercase
- `.title()` $\rightarrow$ string with first letter of every word capitalized
## How do you work with integers and floating point numbers?
Useful methods working with numbers
- `round(float_var, value)` $\rightarrow$ rounds the number to have (value) decimal places. By default it rounds to the nearest integer
- `abs(var)` $\rightarrow$ absolute value
- `bin(var)`, `oct(var)`, `hex(var)` $\rightarrow$ returns binary, octal or hexadecimal representation of var as a string
- `pow(value, pow, module)` $\rightarrow$ performs $\textnormal{value}^{\textnormal{pow}}$ if module is not specified, else $\textnormal{value}^{\textnormal{pow}}\; \% \;\textnormal{module}$.
## How do augmented assignments work?
The syntax is `var(operator) = value`, which is an efficient way of doing operations on variables. You can even use bitwise operators, such as `&=`, `^=`, `>>=` and `<<=`.
## What is scope in Python and how does it work?
**Scope** controls how and when you can access variables following the *LEGB* rules. They stand for
- L, *local* $\rightarrow$ var in functions or classes
- E, *enclosing* $\rightarrow$ var defined in enclosing or nested functions
- G, *global* $\rightarrow$ var defined in the top level of the file or module (or by using the **global** keyword)
- B, *built-in* $\rightarrow$ reserved names used in Python for predefined functions, ecc.
With `nonlocal var` you can modify var if it's inside the mother function (works inside nested functions)
## What are truthy and falsy values, and how do boolean  operators work?
**Boolean operators**: *and*, *or*, *not*
*Falsy values* $\rightarrow$ None, 0, 0.0, "" (empty string)
*Truthy values* $\rightarrow$ non-zero numbers, non-empty strings
**Short-circuit**: if Python checks an or expression and the first value is Truthy, it stops checking and continues. If Python checks an and expression and the first value is Falsy, it stops checking and skips.