## What Is an Algorithm and How Does Big O Notation Work?
Every computer program that runs on your device has a specific set of instructions, which are executed in a specific set order to complete a task. This is where algorithms come into play. An **algorithm** is a set of unambiguous instructions for solving a problem or carrying out a task.

Algorithms have two key characteristics
- They cannot continue indefinitely. They must finish in a finite number of steps
- Each step must be precise and unambiguous

The steps of an algorithm are independent from any programming language, but to actually make them run on a computer, you need to implement them in a programming language.

If an algorithm is correct, the output for any valid input should match the expected output. In addition to being correct, algorithms should also be efficient. Algorithm efficiency can be measured in terms of how long they take to run and how much space they require in memory to complete the task. As the process grows in size and complexity, if the algorithm is not efficient enough to handle it, you might end up with a very slow computer program that may even crash the entire system.

This is where Big O notation becomes very important. Big O notation describes the worst-case performance, or growth rate, of an algorithm as the input size increases. It focuses on the worst-case performance because this case is very important to understand how efficient the algorithm can be, even in the worst case scenario, regardless of the input.

Big O notation will not give you an exact number to describe the algorithm's efficiency, but it will give you an idea of how it scales as the input size grows, based on the number of operations performed by the algorithm. In Big O notation, we usually denote input size with the letter `n`. For example, if the input is a list, `n` would denote the number of elements in that list.

Constant factors and lower-order terms are not taken into account to find the time complexity of an algorithm based on the number of operations. That's because as the size of `n` grows, the impact of these smaller terms in the total number of operations performed will become smaller and smaller. For example, if an algorithm performs `7n + 20` operations to be completed, the impact of the constant `20` on the final result will be smaller and smaller as `n` grows. The term `7n` will tend to dominate and this will define the overall behavior and efficiency of the algorithm.

### Most Common Types of Complexity
**`O(1)`** is known as "Constant Time Complexity". When an algorithm has constant time complexity, it takes the same amount of time to run, regardless of input size.

```python
def check_even_or_odd(number):
    if number % 2 == 0:
        return 'Even'
    else:
        return 'Odd'
```

**`O(log n)`** is known as "Logarithmic Time Complexity". This means that the time required by the algorithm increases slowly as the input size grows. This is common in problems in which the size of the problem is repeatedly reduced by a constant fraction.

**`O(n)`** is known as "Linear Time Complexity". The running time of algorithms with this time complexity increases proportionally to the input size.

**`O(n log n)`** is known as "Log-Linear Time Complexity". This is a common time complexity of efficient sorting algorithms, like Merge Sort and Quick Sort.

**`O(n²)`** is known as "Quadratic Time Complexity". The running time of these algorithms increases quadratically relative to the input size, which is generally not efficient for real-world problems.

Other time complexities include "Exponential Time Complexity", denoted as `O(2^n)`, and "Factorial Time Complexity", denoted as `O(n!)`. Both are inefficient for real-world scenarios.
## What are Good Problem-Solving Techniques and Ways to Approach Algorithmic Challenges?
Solving algorithmic challenges is a great way to practice. It requires an analytical way of thinking, being able to break the problem down into its core components, and finding a solution that generates the right output efficiently.

As an example, we'll reverse a string in Python. The first thing that you should do when you come across this type of problem is to read the description multiple times to make sure that you understand what it says. You may miss critical information if you skip this step or read it too fast.

"Given a string, write an algorithm that returns a new string with the characters in reverse order."

Then, once you are familiar with the problem, start breaking it down into its core components.
Ask yourself
- "What is the input?"
- "What is the expected output?"
- "How can I transform the input into the expected output?"

During this planning and analysis phase, it's common to use pseudocode to map out the necessary steps. **Pseudocode** is a high-level description of the algorithm's logic that is general in nature, and is not based on any specific programming language. Pseudocode is not as formal as actual code, since it's only intended for humans to read. It should be easy to understand at a glance. Its main purpose is to give a clear idea of the sequence of steps that will be performed.

```pseudocode
GET original_string

SET reversed_string = ""

FOR EACH character IN original_string:
  ADD character TO THE BEGINNING OF reversed_string

DISPLAY reversed_string
```

This problem can be solved in many different ways. This isn't the only way to reverse a string. But remember that choosing the right algorithm is important. Thinking through different available algorithms is an important problem-solving skill that you should practice. Take a moment to ask yourself if the solution that you are proposing in your pseudocode is the best one or not.

For our "Reverse a String" challenge, we could use either one of these approaches, assuming that we are planning to implement our algorithm in Python
- Using the extended slice syntax `[::-1]` to get a new reversed string.
- Looping over the characters from left to right and adding the new character to the beginning of the new string.
- Calling the `reversed()` function to get an iterator with all the characters in reverse order, and then the `““.join()` method to concatenate them back into a string.

Making these decisions based on your knowledge and experience can make a huge difference in the final performance of your application. Consider different approaches, their efficiency, implications, and implementation.
## How Do Dynamic Arrays Differ From Static Arrays?
Arrays are a fundamental data structure in computer science. All arrays store ordered collections of data, but depending on their type, they may work differently behind the scenes.

**Static arrays** have a fixed size. They store elements in adjacent memory locations. The size of a static array is determined when the array is initialized. Once that specific block of memory is allocated, it's fixed, and cannot be changed while the program is running. This is a key characteristic of static arrays. Storing elements in adjacent memory locations makes the data retrieval process more efficient because the program can store the location of the first element and then use indices to make simple calculations and find the other elements in memory. Thanks to this, accessing the values of a static array takes constant time `O(1)`, which is very efficient.

Python does not include traditional static arrays as built-in data structures. Arrays in Python are always dynamic.

**Dynamic arrays** are more flexible because they can grow or shrink automatically while the program is running. They work through an automatic resizing mechanism that copies the elements into a new array when the original array is full. The process is done efficiently because the size of the new array is chosen in an efficient way that makes these computationally expensive operations less frequent. 

Accessing the elements of a dynamic array takes constant time `O(1)`, so this operation is very efficient. Inserting an element in the middle of the array takes linear time `O(n)` because the elements after it need to be relocated. Inserting an element at the end of the array takes constant time `O(1)` if there is still space available in the dynamic array, but if the array is full and needs resizing, this operation has a `O(n)` complexity. You should use dynamic arrays when you don't know in advance the number of values that you will need to store in the array. They are also helpful when you will be frequently inserting and deleting elements.
## How Do Stacks and Queues Work?
Stacks and queues are data structures commonly used in computer science. They're linear data structures that follow specific rules for adding and removing elements.
### Stacks
A **stack** is a Last-in, First-out (LIFO) data structure. This means that the last element that was added to the stack is the first one to be removed. Stacks have two ends, which we know as top and bottom. Elements are added and removed from the top of the stack. You can think of a stack as a pile of dishes, where you can only place dishes at the top of the pile and take dishes from the top of the pile.

The time complexity of the push and pop operations is typically `O(1)`, a constant time complexity. When you push an element onto the stack, the element is simply added to the top. When you pop an element from the stack, the element at the top is removed. Therefore, the time it takes to perform these operations remains constant regardless of the size of the stack. The space complexity of the push and pop operations is usually constant `O(1)`. This means that the amount of memory required to perform these operations remains constant regardless of the size of the stack.
### Queues
A queue is a First-in First-out (FIFO) linear data structure. This means that the first element added to the queue is the first one to be removed.

Queues have two ends: front and back. Elements are added to the back of the queue and they are removed from the front of the queue.

The operations of adding and removing elements have special names in the context of a queue. Adding an element to the back of a queue is known as an "enqueue" operation. In an enqueue operation, the new element is added to the end of the queue, becoming the end of the line. Removing an element from the front of the queue is known as a "dequeue" operation. In the dequeue operation, the element at the front of the queue is removed, and the next element in line becomes the new front.

The time complexity of the enqueue and dequeue operations is `O(1)`, constant time. The time it takes to perform these operations remains constant, regardless of the size of the queue. The space complexity of the enqueue and dequeue operations is usually constant `O(1)`. This means that the amount of memory required to perform these operations remains constant regardless of the size of the queue.
## How Do Singly Linked Lists Work and How Do They Differ From Doubly Linked List?
A **linked list** is a linear data structure in which each node is connected to the next node in the sequence. We use these references to go from the first node to the next node and so on. Linked lists are commonly used for implementing other data structures, such as stacks, queues, and dequeues. They can also be used to implement essential graph algorithms, such as depth-first search and breadth-first search.
### Singly Linked Lists
A **singly linked list** is a type of linked list in which each node is connected to the next node in the sequence. Each node is connected to the next one by storing a reference to it. This single reference per node allows you to traverse the linked list in one direction, from start to end. The search can only move forward, not backwards.
### Inserting Nodes
One of the great things about linked lists is that they do not have a fixed size. They can be expanded or shrunk as needed by simply updating the connections between the nodes. You can **insert** a node at the start, middle, and end of a linked list. Linked lists don't necessarily need to store the nodes in a specific order. The order will be determined by the connections between the nodes. However, if you do need to keep the nodes in a specific order for your particular use case, you can do so by implementing that logic in your code and the criteria you implement will determine if the node is inserted at the start, middle, or end. To insert a node at the start of the linked list, you just need to create a connection between the new node and the node that used to be the head node and make the new node the head node instead.

Inserting a node at the beginning of the linked list has a constant time complexity `O(1)` because it only requires updating the reference to the head node and the connection between the new head node and the next node in the sequence.

To insert a node at the end of the linked list, first you need to reach the end and then add a connection to the new node to make it the new tail node. This operation has linear time complexity, `O(n)`, where n is the number of nodes stored in the linked list, because first you need to reach the end of the linked list to make the insertion and this would require going from one node to the next and so on until the end is reached.

If the node has to be inserted somewhere in the middle of the linked list, the connections between the nodes will have to be updated too. The previous node in the sequence should be connected to the new node and the new node should be connected to the next node, like in the following diagram. The insertion operation has a constant space complexity `O(1)`, since inserting a new node only requires creating it and updating the connections between the nodes. This operation doesn't depend on the size of the linked list itself.
### Removing Nodes
Just as you can insert nodes, you can also remove them from the start, middle, and end of the linked list.

To remove a node from the start, you need to update the reference to the head node, which should be the next node in the sequence. This operation has a constant time complexity `O(1)`, because it only requires updating the linked list's reference to the head node.

To remove a node from the middle of the linked list, you need to update the reference of the previous node to connect it to the next node in the sequence, forming a sort of "bridge" between them, as you can see in this diagram. This operation has a linear time complexity `O(n)` because first you have to reach the end of the linked list.

The deletion operation has a constant space complexity `O(1)`, because no additional memory is required to delete a node.
### Doubly Linked Lists
In a **doubly linked list**, each node stores two references: a reference to the next node and a reference to the previous node in the sequence. This means that doubly linked lists can be traversed in both directions.

In this type of linked list, it's also common to keep a reference to the tail node in the linked list itself to start the traversal from the end if necessary.

The insertion and deletion operations work exactly the same. The only difference is that now you will need to update two references per node and keep track of the reference to the tail node to insert elements at the end of the doubly linked list very efficiently and start the traversal process from the back, if necessary.
## How Do Maps, Hash Maps and Sets Work?
An Abstract Data Type (ADT) is a conceptual representation of a data type, including what operations can be performed on the data and the properties of that data. Abstract Data Types are like blueprints that describe **what** operations can be performed, not **how** they are performed. They separate the interface from the actual implementation of the operations.

A **map** is an ADT that manages collections of key-value pairs and their operations in a very specific and efficient way. In a map, every value is associated with a specific key. One of the key characteristics of maps is that every key must be unique. This uniqueness allows for direct lookups, which makes the process of retrieving information much more efficient.

The map Abstract Data Type also defines important operations, such as inserting key-value pairs, getting the value associated with a key, updating the value associated with a key, removing a key-value pair, and checking if a key exists in the map. It doesn't actually specify how these operations should be performed, it just lists them as part of the available operations of the data type.

A **hash map**, also known as a hash table, is a concrete implementation of the map Abstract Data Type. Hash maps use a technique called "hashing" to perform common operations very efficiently.

Hashing essentially works by generating a hash value for each element using a hash function. The hash value is generated based on the key of the key-value pair and it's used to calculate an index in an underlying array, the actual data structure where the key-value pairs are stored.

What happens if two keys result in the same index? Hash maps solve these collisions with clever strategies. One option is to use the "chaining" strategy, where each array index points to a linked list (another data structure), where all the elements with the same index are stored. Another strategy is to use "open addressing", which involves searching for the next available index in the array based on a predefined search sequence.

The average case time complexity of hash maps is "Constant Time" `O(1)` for inserting, retrieving, and deleting key-value pairs. The worst case time complexity of these operations is Linear Time `O(n)`, which occurs when there are many hash collisions, so the collision resolution strategy has to be applied multiple times.

The space complexity of inserting into a hash map is constant `O(1)` on the average case, a constant amount of memory to store the new pair. However, in the worst case, it can have linear space complexity `O(n)` due to a resizing operation of the underlying array. In general, removing an element has a constant space complexity `O(1)`.

Python's **dictionaries** are implemented as hash maps behind the scenes.