## What are lists and how do they work?
- `list(iterable)` converts an iterable into a list of objects.
- `del list[index]` deletes the item with said index
- `item in list` returns boolean value of "if item is inside list"
- `item1, item2, ... = list>` unpacks list items inside variables.
	- `..., \*itemn = list` means that the remaining item which are not unpacked will be inserted inside itemx as a list. The max number of variables is the length of the list
- `list[start:stop:step]` slices the string from the index `start` to the index `end` every `step` items
## What are some common methods used for lists?
- `.append(var)` adds var at the end of the list
- `.extends(list)` appends the items inside list to another list
- `.insert(index, var)` insert var in list into position index, pushing the items forward after that index
- `.remove(value)` removes the first occurrence of item in the list
- `.pop(index)` removes the item in index position. If index isn't specified it removes the last element
- `.clear()` clears the list items
- `.sort()` sorts the items in the list
- `.reverse()` reverses the items in the list, so index item becomes -index
- `.index(value)` returns index of the first item from the left with said value
## What are some common methods used for tuples?
- `.count(value)` counts the number of times value is present inside the tuple
- `.index(value)` works as for lists
- `sorted(tuple)` returns a list of tuple's sorted elements. This function have 2 custom arguments
	- `reverse` (False by default) $\rightarrow$ if turned on, it sorts in reverse
	- `key` $\rightarrow$ sorts the items according to another sort order
## What are ranges and how can you use them in a loop?
`range(start, end, step)`is a function that generates a sequences of integers.
start default value: zero, the only needed value is the end one. So if we write `range(3)` it generates integers from 0 to 2 (range is non-inclusive).

Following an application of the range function
```python
for num in range(3):
	print(num)
	
# 0
# 1
# 2
```

The step value works as the one in the list slicing. You can use a negative number as the step in range.
## What are enumerate and zip functions and how do they work?
`enumarate(list, start)` is a function that keeps track of the index of iterables element. It generates a list of tuples, where the first element is the index and the second element is the value. It's useful in for loops. The `start` argument is optional and it specifies the starting value of the index.

```python
languages = ['Spanish', 'English', 'Russian', 'Chinese']

list(enumerate(languages))
# [(0, 'Spanish'), (1, 'English'), (2, 'Russian'), (3, 'Chinese')]
```

`zip()` is a function useful if you need to interact over multiple iterables items in parallel, combining lists into pair of elements and return an iterator of tuples.

```python
developers = ['Naomi', 'Dario', 'Jessica', 'Tom']
ids = [1, 2, 3, 4]

list(zip(developers, ids))
# [('Naomi', 1), ('Dario', 2), ('Jessica', 3), ('Tom', 4)]
```
## What are list comprehension and what are some useful functions to work with lists?
*List comprehension* allows to create a new list in a single line by combining a loop and condition directly within square brackets.

Example of list comprehension
```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
result = [(num, 'Even') if num % 2 == 0 else (num, 'Odd') for num in numbers]
print(result)

# [(1, 'Odd'), (2, 'Even'), (3, 'Odd'), (4, 'Even'), (5, 'Odd')]
```

`filter(function, iterable)` is a method used to create a list starting from an existing iterable. It selects elements that meets a specific condition (inside the `function`) .

`map(function, iterable)` is similar to `filter(...)`, but it applies the function instead of filtering the elements.

Examples of `filter` and `map` functions
```python
words = ['tree', 'sky', 'mountain', 'river', 'cloud', 'sun']

def is_long_word(word):
    return len(word) > 4

long_words = list(filter(is_long_word, words))
print(long_words) # ['mountain', 'river', 'cloud']
```

```python
celsius = [0, 10, 20, 30, 40]

def to_fahrenheit(temp):
    return (temp * 9/5) + 32

fahrenheit = list(map(to_fahrenheit, celsius))
print(fahrenheit) # [32.0, 50.0, 68.0, 86.0, 104.0]
```

`sum(iterable)` is a function that sums the numeric values inside an iterable. You can also pass an optional `start` argument which sets the initial value for the summation.

```python
numbers = [5, 10, 15, 20]
total = sum(numbers, 10) # positional argument
print(total) # 60
```
## What are Lambda Functions and How Do They Work?
Lambda functions are anonymous inline functions that are useful when working with high order functions.

Example of a lambda function
```python
lambda num: num ** 2
```

Example of using a lambda function inside an high order function
```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

even_numbers = list(filter(lambda x: x % 2 == 0, numbers))
print(even_numbers)  # [2, 4]
```

It's not a good practice to assign a lambda function to a variable, even if you could possibly do that, and it should be avoided creating lambda functions that are difficult to read. Instead, it's better creating a non-anonymous function.