## What are Dictionaries, and How Do They Work?
*Dictionaries* are built-in data structures that store collections of key-value pairs. You use a key to find its corresponding value. You should use dictionaries when you need to associate values to unique keys.

General syntax of a Python dictionary
```python
dictionary = {
    key1: value1,
    key2: value2
}
```

The values can be of any type.

Another alternative in creating a dictionary is using the `dict()` function, which builds the dictionary from a sequence of key-value pairs. You need to pass a list of tuples.

Example of using the `dict()` function
```python
pizza = dict([('name', 'Margherita Pizza'), ('price', 8.9), ('calories_per_slice', 200)
```

In order to access values you need to execute `dictionary[key]`, where the word `dictionary` is the variable name (in the example above, `pizza`).
You can modify values by calling `dictionary[key] = new_value`.

The `.get(key, default)` method retrieves the value associated with a key. The `default` value is used if the key doesn't exists.

The `.keys()` and `.values()` methods return a view object with all the keys and values in the dictionary.

```python
pizza.keys()
# dict_keys(['name', 'price', 'calories_per_slice'])

pizza.values()
# dict_values(['Margherita Pizza', 8.9, 250])
```
A view object is just a way to see the content of a dictionary without creating a separate copy of the data.

The `.items()` method returns a view object with all the key-value pairs in the dictionary, including both the keys and the values.

```python
pizza.items()
# dict_items([('name', 'Margherita Pizza'), ('price', 8.9), ('calories_per_slice', 250)])
```

The `.clear()` method removes of all the key-value pairs from the dictionary.

The `.pop(key, default)` method removes the key-value pair with the key that you specify as the first argument and returns its value. If the key doesn't exists, it returns the `default` value. If the key doesn't exists and the `default` value isn't passed, it raises a `KeyError`.

```python
pizza.pop('price', 10)
pizza.pop('total_price') # KeyError
```

The `.update()` method updates the key-value pairs with the key-value pairs of another dictionary. If they don't have keys in common, their values are overwritten.

```python
pizza.update({ 'price': 15, 'total_time': 25 })
```
## What Are Sets, and How Do They Work?
Sets are one of Python's built-in data structures. They don't store duplicate values, they are mutable and unordered, so you can't access them with an index. They can only contain values of immutable data types like integers, strings and tuples.

To create a set you must use the `set()` function.

You can add an element to a set using the `.add(value)` method. If you try to add an element that is already in the set, only one will be kept.

To remove an element from a set, you can use both `.remove(value)` or `.discard(value)` methods. The only difference is that the `.discard(value)` doesn't raise a `KeyError` if the value isn't found inside the set.

The `.clear()` method removes all elements from the set.

The `.issubset()` and `.issuperset()` methods check if a set is a subset or a superset of another set, respectively.

The `.isdisjoint()` method checks if two sets don't have any element in common.

The union operator `|` returns a new set with all the elements from both sets
The intersection operator `&` returns a new set with only the elements that the sets have in common.
The difference operator `-` returns a new set with the elements of the first set that are not in the other sets.
The symmetric difference operator `^` returns a new set with the elements that are either in the first or the second set, but not both.
## What Is the Python Standard Library, and How Do You Import a Module?
Python has an extensive standard library with many different built-in modules.

The `math` module has helpful functions for performing more complex mathematical operations.
The `random` module is helpful for generating random numbers.
The `re` module is used for working with regular expressions.
And the `datetime` module is helpful for working with dates and times in Python.

To import a module inside a script, you have to declare it using the `import module` statement. If you only need a method inside that specific module, you can rephrase it by declaring `import module.method()`.

`import module as module_name` means that you are importing the module and you will call it with the `module_name` instead of the original one.

If you want to import multiple methods or sub-models, you can by using the `from` statement as it follows: `from module import method1, method2`. `from module import *` means that you import every method from the `module`. This means you can use every function of `module` without calling it.

## What Are Dictionaries and How Do They Work?

_Dictionaries_ are built-in data structures that store collections of key-value pairs. A key is used to find its corresponding value. It is advisable to use dictionaries when you need to associate values with unique keys.

General syntax of a Python dictionary

```python
dictionary = {
    key1: value1,
    key2: value2
}
```

Values can be of any type.

An alternative way to create a dictionary is to use the `dict()` function, which builds the dictionary from a sequence of key-value pairs. You need to pass a list of tuples.

Example of using the `dict()` function

```python
pizza = dict([
    ('name', 'Margherita Pizza'),
    ('price', 8.9),
    ('calories_per_slice', 200)
])
```

To access values, you need to execute `dictionary[key]`, where the word `dictionary` is the variable name (in the example above, `pizza`).  
You can modify values by calling `dictionary[key] = new_value`.

The `.get(key, default)` method retrieves the value associated with a key. The `default` value is used if the key does not exist.

The `.keys()` and `.values()` methods return a _view object_ containing all the keys and all the values in the dictionary.

```python
pizza.keys()
# dict_keys(['name', 'price', 'calories_per_slice'])

pizza.values()
# dict_values(['Margherita Pizza', 8.9, 250])
```

A _view object_ is simply a way to view the contents of a dictionary without creating a separate copy of the data.

The `.items()` method returns a _view object_ containing all the key-value pairs in the dictionary, including both keys and values.

```python
pizza.items()
# dict_items([('name', 'Margherita Pizza'), ('price', 8.9), ('calories_per_slice', 250)])
```

The `.clear()` method removes all key-value pairs from the dictionary.

The `.pop(key, default)` method removes the key-value pair with the key specified as the first argument and returns its value. If the key does not exist, it returns the `default` value. If the key does not exist and the `default` value is not provided, a `KeyError`exception is raised.

```python
pizza.pop('price', 10)
pizza.pop('total_price')  # KeyError
```

The `.update()` method updates the key-value pairs with those from another dictionary. If there are keys in common, their values are overwritten.

```python
pizza.update({ 'price': 15, 'total_time': 25 })
```

## What Are Sets and How Do They Work?

Sets are one of Python’s built-in data structures. They do not store duplicate values, they are mutable and unordered, so you cannot access them using an index. They can only contain values of immutable data types such as integers, strings, and tuples.

To create a set, you must use the `set()` function.

You can add an element to a set using the `.add(value)` method. If you try to add an element that is already in the set, only one instance will be kept.

To remove an element from a set, you can use the `.remove(value)` or `.discard(value)` methods. The only difference is that `.discard(value)` does not raise a `KeyError` exception if the value is not found in the set.

The `.clear()` method removes all elements from the set.

The `.issubset()` and `.issuperset()` methods check whether a set is a subset or a superset of another set, respectively.

The `.isdisjoint()` method checks whether two sets have no elements in common.

The union operator `|` returns a new set containing all the elements from both sets.  
The intersection operator `&` returns a new set containing only the elements that the sets have in common.  
The difference operator `-` returns a new set containing the elements of the first set that are not present in the other sets.  
The symmetric difference operator `^` returns a new set containing the elements that are in either the first or the second set, but not in both.

## What Is the Python Standard Library and How Do You Import a Module?

Python provides an extensive standard library that includes many built-in modules.

The `math` module contains useful functions for performing more complex mathematical operations.  
The `random` module is useful for generating random numbers.  
The `re` module is used for working with regular expressions.  
The `datetime` module is useful for working with dates and times in Python.

To import a module into a script, you need to declare it using the `import module` statement. If you only need a specific method from that module, you can import it by declaring `import module.method`.

The statement `import module as module_name` means that you are importing the module and that it will be referenced using `module_name` instead of its original name.

If you want to import multiple methods or submodules, you can do so using the `from` statement as follows: `from module import method1, method2`. The statement `from module import *` means that all methods from the module are imported. This allows you to use every function of the module without having to specify the module name.