## What Is a Code Editore and IDE?
A *code editor* is any application that allows you to edit code files. An IDE, or *Integrated Development Environment*, is a full application that allows you to compile, run and debug your code when you edit it.

Visual Studio is an integrated development environment by Microsoft that provides a comprehensive suite of tools for building, debugging, and deploying applications across various platforms. Another IDE is XCode. Xcode is an integrated development environment by Apple designed for creating, coding, and debugging applications for macOS, iOS, watchOS, and tvOS.

Visual Studio Code is a lightweight, open-source code editor by Microsoft that supports a wide range of programming languages and provides features like debugging, syntax highlighting, and version control through extensions. Another popular editor would be Sublime Text. Sublime Text is a fast, versatile text editor known for its sleek interface, powerful features, and support for a wide range of programming languages through customizable syntax highlighting and plugins.

Replit is an online platform that provides a collaborative environment for coding, allowing users to write, run, and share code in various programming languages directly from a web browser. Another popular cloud-based editor is GitHub Codespaces. This is a cloud-based development environment that provides instant access to a fully-configured code editor and development tools directly from GitHub, enabling seamless coding and collaboration. And another one is Ona. Ona is a cloud-based development environment that integrates with GitHub and GitLab, offering instant, customizable workspaces for coding, building, and debugging directly from your browser.
## How to Install Visual Studio Code onto Your Computer
To install VS Code, you'll want to visit their website to get the appropriate installer for your operating system.

For Windows, you can download an EXE installer. For Mac, you can download a zip archive which contains a `.app` that you can run. You can also install VS Code via homebrew. On Linux, you can download a `.deb` or `.rpm` file directly. Once you have it installed, you can use the appropriate executable, or CLI command (typically `code`), to launch the application.
## What Are Several Useful Keyboard Shortcuts for Maximizing Productivity in VS Code?
- `Shift + Alt + F` will run your configured formatter (such as prettier, for a JavaScript project) on the currently opened file
- `Cmd + Shift + F`  to search the text contents of all the files in your workspace
- `Cmd + Shift + H`(Mac) if you want to run a find-and-replace
- If you need to remove a line, `Cmd + Shift + K` (Mac) will delete it
- `Cmd + B` will hide the sidebar - which has the file list and extensions menu
- `Cmd + Shift + P` opens the command palette for you to select whatever you may need
## What Are Some Good VS Code Extensions You Can Use in Your Editor?
- *Better Comments* is an extension that offers special highlighting for specific code comments. For example, it will call out "TODO" comments, as well as syntax to indicate questions or warnings
- _Code Spell Checker_ offers indication when you have spelled something incorrectly in your code. Because it is designed for code files, it will account for things like camel case
- _Error Lens_ will help you catch any highlighted errors in your code. Rather than having to rely on the underline that VS Code shows by default, this extension highlights the entire line and displays the error message
- _Indent Rainbow_ adds color to your different levels of indentation. In combination with VS Code's native bracket pair colorization, this can dramatically help identify what scope your code is in.
- An icon pack, such as _VS Code Great Icons_, can help make your file tree cleaner and easier to parse at a glance. And an extension like _Colorize_ can help you understand the values in your CSS properties
- You'll also want language-specific extensions for your projects. If you are using JavaScript, you will likely want _ESLint_ and _Prettier_ to lint and format your code. If you are using TypeScript, you might want _Pretty Typescript Errors_ for easier to read messages