## What is the Terminal, and How Does It Differ from the Command Line?
The command line is a basic text input interface which allows a user to enter "commands", usually in the form of a series of characters, and submit and execute them.

A terminal is a special application that offers a command line interface to perform system-level commands beyond the basic read/write operations. You may also hear about "terminal emulators". which are essentially applications that wrap a basic terminal interface to offer additional features or functionality.

Finally, we will also need to talk about "shells". A shell is the software that wraps the command line and interprets your inputs as commands, returning the outputs.

MacOS offers a terminal that is aptly named "Terminal". You can access this through your spotlight search, or through your application launcher. MacOS also offers support for third-party terminal emulators, such as iTerm or Ghostty. You can install these applications from their home pages.
## What is Bash, and What Are Some Basic Commands?
Bash stands for *Bourne Again SHell*, and is arguably the most common shell you will encounter in Unix-like environment (like Linux or MacOS).

The first command is `pwd`, which prints the current working directory to the terminal. The "working directory" refers to the directory the terminal is currently pointed at, which is an important thing to know for many of these other commands.

It's entirely possible that your terminal is pointed to the wrong directory. The `cd` command allows you to change directories. You can specify an absolute path, prefixed with a forward slash `/`, a relative path with no prefix or use the double-dot syntax `..` to move up to the parent directory.

The next command is `ls`, which lists the contents of your current working directory. This is helpful to see if a file or folder exists in your directory. The `ls` command also takes flags to show hidden files (the `-a` flag), file permissions (the `-l` flag) and other features. You can also use `less` or `cat` to see the contents of a file.

What if the directory does not contain the file or folder you need? There are commands called `mkdir` or `touch` that allow you to create them. `mkdir` creates a new directory or folder, and `touch` creates a new file. Both of those commands accept the name of the file or folder you want to create.

The `mv` command allows you to move (or rename) a file. It takes the old file name and the new file name.

The `rm` command allows you to remove (or delete) a file, and with the `-r` flag will delete a directory. Sometimes a file might be protected, and you'll need to include the `-f` flag.

The `cp` command can be used to copy a file or directory to a new location. Unlike the `mv` command, the `cp` command does not remove the original file - and in order to copy a directory, you'll need to pass the `-r` flag.

The `echo` command can be thought of as the Bash equivalent of a `console.log()` or `print()` function. `echo` takes a string as an argument, wrapped in quotes, and prints it to the terminal. This might seem silly to run in the terminal, just to get the text back in the terminal, but you can actually chain `echo` to a control symbol: the `>` symbol allows you to specify a filename to create or overwrite with the new string, and `>>` will append to the file.

There are many more Bash commands available to you, such as `head`, `tail`, `chown` and `chmod`, and you can use the `man`command to see the manual or help page for nearly any command.
## What Are Some Command Options and Flags?
Options are typically prefixed with one or two hyphen (`-`) symbols, which helps provide a visual distinction between an option and an argument.

Many applications, such as `ls`, accept `--version` flag, which prints the current version of the application to the terminal instead of running the application's commands. Many applications also offer a `--help` flag, which prints instructions on how to use the application.

The one-hyphen, or "short form", syntax typically uses options that are a single letter. For example, the `-a` flag with `ls` lists all files, including hidden files that start with a dot, like `.env`.

The advantage of these short options is that you can chain multiple flags together. Instead of `ls --all --human-readable --size` you can use the single letters all at once with `ls -ahs`.

When using long form options, you typically separate the values with a space.

```bash
ls -w 50
```

```bash
ls --width=50
```

