## What Are Relational Databases, and How Do They Differ from Non-Relational Databases?
A *relation database* is a collection of data organized into tables. These tables are made of rows and columns.

Rows represent individual records: for example, if you're storing user's data, each row could represent a specific user. Columns represent the attributes or fields that describe each record. The table might include columns for common user attributes, such as name and national ID number.

One of the key characteristics of relational databases is that they allow us to connect different pieces of information by linking tables through common attributes, making it easier to see how they relate to each other.

Relational databases require a schema, which defines the overall structure of the database, including its tables, columns, data types, relationships and constraints.

All tables in a relational database have a **primary key**, which is a unique identifier for each row. They enable relationships between tables via **foreign keys**.

A query is a request for specific data from the database, that can be customized to fit specific needs.

Relational databases have a wide range of applications across industries such as healthcare, construction, business, gaming, education, government, e-commerce, social media and more. They offer several advantages, including scalability. They can handle large datasets, so they're perfect for complex, real-world applications. They also enforce data integrity through primary keys, foreign keys, and data types, which ensures that the data will be consistent and accurate.

In addition to relational databases, you can work with non-relational databases. The main difference between relational and non-relational databases is how the data is stored. Non-relational databases, also known as NoSQL databases, are more flexible. They store data in individual files that are not connected. Their data model is more flexible too.

While some non-relational databases may have a basic schema or data model, it is often less rigid than the schema defined in relational databases. You can add, modify, or remove data fields if necessary.

The decision to use a relational or non-relational database depends on various factors, including the nature of the data and the specific requirements of the application. You should evaluate the tradeoffs between these two approaches to choose the best one for your application.
## What Are Some Common Relational Databases, and How Do You Install and Use Postgres?
Relational databases have a wide range of applications, including web development, inventory management systems, healthcare systems, e-commerce applications and more.

Some of the most common relational databases are MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite and Microsoft SQL Server.

**MySQL** is an open-source relational database management system. It's very popular for web development because it's easy to use, reliable and efficient for building real-world applications. It also has an active community of developers that support and maintain it.

**PostgreSQL** is officially described as "*The World's Most Advanced Open Source Relational Database*". It's a free, open-source object-relational database system known for its reliability, data integrity and extensibility. For example, you can define your own data types, custom functions and write code in different programming languages without recompiling your database.

**SQLite** is a free, open-source and lightweight file-based SQL database engine. It's one of the most widely used database engines in the world. SQLite is self-contained and serverless. It's a zero-configuration database, which means that it doesn't require an initial setup process, which is great for getting started quickly.

These three databases are free and open-source, but there are other proprietary solutions too.
## What Is SQL, and How Can You Create a Database with Tables?
**SQL** stands for *Structured Query Language*. It was developed in the 1970s, when it was initially known as the structured English query language (SEQUEL). It's a programming language used for storing and managing data in relational databases.

With SQL, you can add, change, delete, find and retrieve data from a relational database. It provides a comprehensive set of commands for querying, filtering, sorting and aggregating data.

SQL can optimize database performance, by querying only the necessary data, and it can be easily integrated with a wide range of programming languages, so you can use it to interact with databases directly from your applications.

It has been also adopted as an industry standard. It enforces data integrity and includes many security features, such as support for user authentication and data encryption.

SQL is based on commands, commonly known as SQL statements or queries. As a developer, you will write these statements using specific SQL language elements or keywords. The allow you to perform the necessary operations on your database.

Let's go over some of the most fundamental SQL commands that you should be familiar with. You'll notice that, by convention, SQL commands end with a semicolon.

First, you can create a new database (using `psql`) by typing `CREATE DATABASE my_database;`. Then, after you created your database, you can connect to it. How you connect to it depends on the environment and tool used.

In the command prompt or terminal, you can use the following prompt

```shell
psql -U <username> -d <database_name>
```

or simply switch from one to another one using

```shell
\c <database_name>
```

(Note that the `\c` command are part of the `psql` shell and not part of the SQL language itself, so they don't require a semi-colon).

You can create a table with the `CREATE TABLE` keywords

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id SERIAL,
  name VARCHAR(255)
);
```

Within parentheses, you write the names of the columns that the table should have and specify the data type of the values that will be stored in each column. The standard naming convention for table and column names is snake case, writing words in lowercase and separating them with an underscore (`_`). For example: `delivery_orders`.
## What Are the Basic Data Types in SQL?
To define a table in SQL, you need to specify the data type of each column.

```sql
CREATE TABLE table_name(
  column1 data_type column_constraint,
  column2 data_type column_constraint,
  column3 data_type column_constraint,
  ... etc
);
```

There are six popular categories of data types in SQL:
- Numeric, such as `INTEGER`, `FLOAT`, `SERIAL`, and `DECIMAL`.
- Date and time, such as `TIMESTAMP`, `DATE`, and `TIME`.
- Character and string. These include `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, and `TEXT`.
- Unicode, including `NTEXT`, and `NVARCHAR`. These are used to make sure that text will be stored and retrieved correctly, regardless of the characters' origin.
- Binary, used to store non-textual data, like images, audio, and video files.
- And other miscellaneous data types, such as `XML` and `TABLE`.

`INTEGER` types consume 4 bytes in the database and can range in value from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647. The official PostgreSQL documentation describes it as the "typical choice for integer."

We also have `SMALLINT` and `BIGINT`, which are basically the same as `INTEGER` except have a smaller and bigger range of numbers, respectively, due to how much size they are allotted in the database.

A useful feature available in PostgreSQL is to create a column using the `SERIAL` keyword. While it's not a true data type, it's very helpful for creating unique identifier columns because the column will have an `INTEGER` type, will not allow `NULL` values and automatically increment when rows are added. In MySQL, the equivalent of `SERIAL` would be the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute, used to generate sequential integers automatically.

These are the most commonly used numeric data types, but sometimes, you may need to represent text or sequences of characters. For this, you have the `VARCHAR` data type. This data type is used for a variable string length. You can set the maximum character length within parentheses.

```sql
name VARCHAR(50)
```

This data type sets a maximum length for the strings, but if you need to store strings of any length, you can use `TEXT` instead.

In addition to numbers and strings, it's also common to store dates and times. For example, if you create a table to store events, you may need to store the date of each event in a specific format. For this, you have the `DATE` data type. To store time, you can also use the `TIME` data type. The `TIMESTAMP` data type combines both of them. It includes both the date and time. It may also include the time zone if you write `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE`.

```sql
event_date DATE
start_time TIME
event_timestamp TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE
```

And finally, if you need to store a boolean value, `TRUE` or `FALSE`, you can use the `BOOLEAN` data type.
## How Do You Insert and View Data in a Table?
First of all, to view data you need to insert it.

The following table will be used in the future examples.

```sql
CREATE TABLE dogs(
  id SERIAL,
  name VARCHAR(100),
  age INTEGER
);
```

If we assume that we are working with PostgreSQL, we can use the `SERIAL` data type for the `id`. Since `id` was created using `SERIAL`, its value will be an `INTEGER`, starting from `1`, and incremented automatically when a new record is inserted. So you will not need to pass a value for it when you insert a record.

If we assume that we are working with PostgreSQL, we can use the `SERIAL` data type for the `id`. Since `id` was created using `SERIAL`, its value will be an `INTEGER`, starting from `1`, and incremented automatically when a new record is inserted. So you will not need to pass a value for it when you insert a record. You write `INSERT INTO`, followed by the name of the table (in this case, `dogs`), then the columns within parentheses, then `VALUES`, and their corresponding values within parentheses.

```sql
INSERT INTO dogs (name, age)
VALUES ('Gino', 3);
```

Another alternative is to insert the record without specifying the columns.

```sql
INSERT INTO dogs
VALUES ('Gino', 3);
```

This syntax is valid SQL, but it is error-prone.

You can also insert multiple records in the same SQL command by separating them with a comma.

```sql
INSERT INTO dogs (name, age)
VALUES
  ('Gino', 3),
  ('Nora', 2);
```

In SQL, the `SELECT` statement is used for querying data from one or more tables. You can customize the query to get the exact information that you need. If you need to query all the information from the `dogs` table, you just need to write `SELECT`, followed by an asterisk (`*`), then `FROM`, and the name of the table, `dogs`.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM dogs;
```

To query specific columns, you can write the names of those columns in the command, right after `SELECT`, separated by a comma. In this example, we query the `name` and `age` columns of the `dogs` table.

```sql
SELECT name, age
FROM dogs;
```

Sometimes, you might need to query data based on a specific condition. For example, to get all dogs who are less than 3 years old you can use the `WHERE` keyword and the less than (`<`) comparison operator.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM dogs
WHERE age < 3;
```
## What Are Primary and Foreign Keys in SQL, and How Do They Work?
In SQL, primary keys and foreign keys are used to establish relationships between tables.

A **primary key** is a column or set of columns that uniquely identifies each record (row) in a table. This constraint ensures that no records in the table will have the same value for the primary key. Values in the primary key column can't be `NULL` either, so they will always have a valid value.

A composite primary key is for when a table doesn't have a single unique column to identify the row. In this case, you can use a combination of two or more columns as the primary key that, together, are unique. To do this, denote which columns are the composite primary key when you create the table.

```sql
CREATE TABLE table_name (
  column1 data_type column_constraint,
  column2 data_type column_constraint,
  column3 data_type column_constraint,
  ...
  PRIMARY KEY (column1, column2)
);
```

Primary keys are essential for ensuring data uniqueness and integrity, for optimizing data retrieval, and for establishing relationships with other tables in a relational database.

A **foreign key** is a column (or set of columns) in a table that references the primary key of another table. A table can have multiple foreign keys.

```sql
CREATE TABLE customers (
  customer_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  first_name VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
  ...
);

CREATE TABLE orders (
  order_id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  customer_id INTEGER,
  ...
  FOREIGN KEY (customer_id) REFERENCES customers(customer_id)
);
```

*Why is this helpful*? By making sure that these columns in both tables match exactly, foreign and primary keys prevent the creation of "orphaned" records, records that refer to a non-existent record in another table.
## What Are the Different Types of Relationships in a Relational Database?
The "relational" aspect of "relational databases" comes from the fact that records in different tables can have different types of relationships. There are five main types of relations:
- one-to-one
- one-to-many
- many-to-one
- many-to-many
- And self-referencing relationships (also known as recursive relationships).
Two tables have a **one-to-one** relationship when each record in the first table can be associated with at most one record in the second table, and vice versa.

In contrast, **one-to-many** relationships occur when one record in a table can be related to one or more records in another table. For example, if we have a `customers` table and an `orders` table, each customer could be related to one or more orders but each order can only be related to one customer.

**Many-to-many** relationships occur when a record in a table can be related to multiple records in another table and vice versa. Implementing this type of relationship is a little bit more complex because the relational model at its core doesn't support many-to-many relationships directly. To handle this, you would usually create an intermediate table, also known as a *junction table*.

This table solves these initial limitations by transforming the many-to-many relationship into two one-to-many relationships. Using a junction table makes it easier to query the data, prevents redundancy, and simplifies the database schema. They are very helpful for implementing many-to-many relationships.

And finally, we find **self-referencing** relationships, which occur when the records of a table can be related to other records on the same table. This is also known as a recursive relationship.
## What Are the Different Ways to Join Tables?
Even though relational databases organize data into separate tables, SQL's `JOIN` operations allow you to combine related information from tables to query data.

There are several variants of the `JOIN` operation, including:
- `INNER JOIN`
- `FULL OUTER JOIN`
- `LEFT OUTER JOIN`
- `RIGHT OUTER JOIN`
- `SELF JOIN`
- `CROSS JOIN`

An `INNER JOIN` filters the result to include only rows where the values in the joining columns that you specify are equal in both tables. Basically, it gives you the intersection of the data.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM products
INNER JOIN sales
  ON products.product_id = sales.product_id;
```

This will only get the rows that have the same `product_id` in both tables.

A `FULL OUTER JOIN` returns all rows from both tables. If a match is found in the specified columns, the data is combined and you get all columns for each matching record.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM products
FULL OUTER JOIN sales
  ON products.product_id = sales.product_id;
```

A `LEFT OUTER JOIN` is used to get all the records from the left table and the matching information from the right table for each row of the left table. If no match is found, the columns from the right table are filled in with `NULL` values.

```sql
SELECT *
FROM products
LEFT JOIN sales
  ON products.product_id = sales.product_id;
```

A `RIGHT OUTER JOIN` is very similar, but now we get all the records from the right table and the matching information from the left table for each row of the right table. If there's no match, the columns from the left table are filled in with `NULL` values.

A `SELF JOIN` allows you to join the table with itself. You can think of it as joining two copies of the same table. This is helpful for comparing different rows within the same table.

A `CROSS JOIN`, also known as a Cartesian Join, joins every row from the first table with every row of the second table. Therefore, it generates all possible row combinations. This operation doesn't need any conditions to join the tables.