## What is Normalization in SQL?
*Normalization* is the process of organizing a relational database using established normal forms to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity.

To normalize a database, you analyze the attributes and relationships in your table structures to identify opportunities for simplification based on normalization rules. Then, you divide the data into smaller, more focused tables and establish relationships between using primary and foreign keys. These smaller tables will store all the data that you originally had, but they will be easier to manage, organize and work with, compared to larger tables.

By minimizing data redundancy, normalization reduces storage space and prevents inconsistencies. For example, if a customer's address changes, you only need to update it in one customer table rather than in every record.

The set of rules that you should follow to organize your tables are called normal forms. Each normal form builds on the previous ones, with rules becoming stricter as you move to higher normal forms. The *First Normal Form* (**1NF**) is the foundational form, with the most basic rules.

A table is in First Normal Form (1NF) if
- Each cell should contain only one value (so no array values)
- Every record must be unique. While primary keys enforce this requirement, 1NF explicitly mandates that no duplicate rows exists in the table
- The order of the rows and columns should not be relevant. Data should not depend on its physical location
Essentially, the First Normal Form (1NF) focuses on making values simple and atomic.

The *Second Normal Form* (**2NF**) builds on 1NF, requiring that all 1NF requirements are met plus additional constraints. Understanding 2NF requires familiarity with two key concepts: *superkeys* and *candidate keys*. A superkey is any set of attributes that uniquely identifies each row in a table, meaning no two rows can have identical values across all columns in the superkey. A candidate key is similar but still a little bit different. It's a set of one or more columns on the table that can uniquely identify each record. A table can have multiple candidate keys but you'll need to choose one to act as the primary key. Their difference is that the superkey can also contain additional attributes that are not necessary to identify each row uniquely, while the candidate key only contains attributes that do identify the row uniquely.

The Second Normal Form is based on addressing partial dependencies. A partial dependency occurs in a table when an attribute that is not part of the primary key only depends on part of a *composite primary key* (a composite key is a primary key made of multiple columns). This can lead to data redundancy and update anomalies.

For example, let's say we have an `orders` table with these columns:

```sql
order_id | item_id | order_date | quantity | order_shipping_city
```

In this table, the primary key is the combination of `order_id` and `item_id` because the same item ID can be in different orders, but their combination will be unique. You can see that there is a partial dependency between `order_id` and `order_shipping_city`. `order_id` is part of the primary key. `order_shipping_city` depends on `order_id` because every order with the same ID will have the same shipping city. However, the shipping city does not depend on the  `item_id`, but this is also part of the primary key. Therefore, `order_shipping_city` does not depend on the entire primary key.

To fix this, you can split the table into two smaller tables, like `order_header` and `order_items`. In the `order_header` table, you could store the top-level information about the orders.

```sql
order_id | order_date | order_shipping_city
```

In the `order_items` table, you could store information about the items in the different orders that were submitted.

```sql
order_id | item_id | quantity
```

That leads us to the *Third Normal Form* (**3NF**), which builds on the second normal form. For a table to have this form, it must
- Be in Second Normal Form
- Have all non-key attributes depend directly on the primary key, meaning no non-key attribute should depend on another non-key attribute

To understand the Third Normal Form (3NF), you need to understand *transitive dependencies*. A transitive dependency occurs when an attribute that is not part of the primary key depends on another attribute that is not part of the primary key, which in turn depends on the primary key.

And finally, we have the Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF). This is also known as Normal Form 3.5 because it addresses some anomalies that the Third Normal Form may not address. For a table to be in the Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF), it has to:
- Be in Third Normal Form.
- Have every left-hand side of a functional dependency be a superkey.

The goal of this normal form is to ensure that every attribute or set of attributes that determines another attribute is a superkey, which is a candidate key or a superset of them.
## What Is SQL Injection, and What Are Some Ways to Prevent It?
*SQL injection* is a web security vulnerability in which attackers change or take advantage of the queries that the web application makes to the database. For example, attackers can insert malicious SQL code into the query to run the malicious code on the backend.

This can happen when you give users the option to enter data through login forms, search bars or URL parameters and then use that user input in string interpolation or concatenation to generate the final SQL command.

Depending on the attacker's goal, the malicious SQL code can cause significant disruptions on your database and web application, like bypassing authentication, stealing data from the database or modifying or removing database records. Therefore, you should take this threat very seriously.

So how can you prevent this? There are two main ways to prevent SQL injection:
- Don't write dynamic queries with string concatenation.
- Prevent malicious SQL input from being included in queries that will be executed in the back-end.

In practice, you can use *parametrized statements*, also known as parametrized queries. They separate the SQL structure from the data entered by the user, which prevents the database from interpreting the input data as executable code.

Another important technique is input validation. This is recommended as a secondary security measure in all cases, but it's especially important for parts of SQL queries related to table names, column names and sorting order. If possibile, it's recommended to assign table names and column names directly within your code, not from user input.

If, despite all the preventive measures, you do get an SQL injection attack, you can minimize its impact on the database by limiting the permissions of each database account. Grant each database user only the permissions needed for their tasks, but nothing more. If an account only needs to read data from the database, grant it read access only. And as a preventive measure, never assign admin permissions to your application accounts. It is very dangerous to do so because an attacker could get complete access and full control over the database.
## What Is the N+1 Problem?
The **N + 1 problem** is a common performance bottleneck in database-driven applications. If you've ever experienced a really long load time while using an application, it's very likely related to the N + 1 problem. This problem occurs when many small queries are being performed in a sequence to get the data you requested.

But why would you perform many queries in a sequence? You might do this to query a list of records and additional information about those records. You would perform an initial query to get the list of records and then perform an additional query for each one of those records, to get additional information about them.

Even if you intuitively think that performing many small and simple queries will be more efficient than performing just one large and complex query, this is usually not the case. The more queries you perform, the longer the entire process will take because you need to send each query to the server, find the data on the database and then receive the data sent by the server for that query. This can have a very significant performance impact on your application.